 
 EX-99.1
 2
 ex99-1.htm
 EX-99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

 Exhibit
99.1 

   

 

   

 Uranium
Royalty Corp. Announces Filing and Mailing of the Management Information Circular in Connection with the Special Meeting of Shareholders
to Approve Proposed Plan of Arrangement with Sweetwater Investors and Announces Exchangeable Share Election Deadline. 

   

 ●
The board of directors of Uranium Royalty Corp unanimously recommends shareholders vote FOR the Arrangement Resolution. 



   

 ●
Your vote is important no matter how many shares you hold. Vote today! 



   

 ●
Shareholders who have questions or need assistance with voting their shares may contact Uranium Royalty Corp.’s proxy solicitation
agent, Laurel Hill Advisory Group, by telephone at 1-877-452-7184 (toll-free in North America), 1-416-304-0211 (collect calls outside
North America), by texting “INFO” to either number or by email at assistance@laurelhill.com. 



   

 Vancouver,
British Columbia – June 26, 2026 – Uranium Royalty Corp. (NASDAQ: UROY, TSX: URC) (“ URC ”
or the “ Company ”) is pleased to announce that it has filed and mailed its management information circular (the “ Circular ”)
and related proxy materials for its special meeting of shareholders (the “ Meeting ”), that will be held in-person at
1021 West Hastings Street, Suite 2200, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6E 0C3 on July 20, 2026, at 9:00 a.m. (Vancouver time). The
Circular and related proxy materials are now available under URC’s issuer profile on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca and on the
Company’s website at https://www.uraniumroyalty.com/investor-centre/shareholder-meetings/. 

   

 At
the Meeting, URC shareholders (the “ Shareholders ”) will be asked to consider and vote on a special resolution (the
“ Arrangement Resolution ”), to approve a proposed plan of arrangement (the “ Plan of Arrangement ”)
between URC and certain affiliated entities of Orion Resource Partners (USA) LP (the “Orion Sellers ”) and HRG Metals
LP (“ Ontario Teachers’ ”, and together with the Orion Sellers, the “ Sweetwater Investors ”), a
subsidiary of the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, as contemplated by an arrangement agreement, dated as of April 16, 2026, by and between
the Company and the Sweetwater Investors (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “ Arrangement
Agreement ”), pursuant to which the Sweetwater Investors agreed to contribute and sell their approximately 92% interest in certain
entities holding trona royalty assets and landholdings in Wyoming, Utah and Colorado, United States (the “ Sweetwater Entities ”),
to a newly formed parent company (“ New URC ”) and the Company for aggregate consideration to the Sweetwater Investors
of approximately US$1.14 billion, payable in a combination of cash and shares of New URC. 

   

 The
transaction (the “ Arrangement ”) will be effected by way of a statutory plan of arrangement under the Canada Business
Corporations Act and will result in the combination of the Company and the Sweetwater Investors’ approximately 92% interest in the
Sweetwater Entities under New URC. Upon completion of the Arrangement, New URC is expected to be a publicly traded parent of the combined
group listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 Under
the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, each Shareholder will receive one common share of New URC (a “ New URC Share ”)
for each URC share (each a “ URC Share ”) held, subject to approval of the Arrangement by Shareholders, provided that
certain eligible Canadian Shareholders (“ Eligible Holders ”) will be entitled to elect, in respect of all or a portion
of their URC Shares, to receive exchangeable shares of a Canadian subsidiary of New URC (the “ Exchangeable Shares ”)
in lieu of New URC Shares, on a one-for-one basis. Each Exchangeable Share will be exchangeable for one New URC Share (subject to customary
adjustments) in accordance with the terms of the exchangeable share provisions, as further set out in the Circular. 

   

 Under
the Arrangement, the Sweetwater Investors will receive approximately US$330 million in cash from the Company and 223,252,749 New URC
Shares at a deemed value of US$3.64 per share, subject to adjustment under the Arrangement Agreement. 

   

 Recommendation
of the Board and the Special Committee 

   

 A
special committee of URC’s board of directors (the “ Board ”), composed of independent directors (the “ Special
Committee ”), advised the Board that, after careful consideration of the fairness opinion of Paradigm Capital Inc., the financial
advisor to the Special Committee, and such other matters as it considered relevant, including, among other things, (i) the review and
consideration by the Special Committee of the terms and conditions of the Arrangement Agreement and the Plan of Arrangement, (ii) the
financial and legal advice received by the Special Committee in respect of the Arrangement, and (iii) the Special Committee’s review
of the alternatives reasonably available to the Company, the Special Committee has unanimously recommended to the Board that it authorize
and approve the Company entering into the Arrangement and the performance of its obligations thereunder and recommend to Shareholders
that they vote in favour of the Arrangement Resolution. 

   

 After
careful consideration, the Board, acting on the unanimous recommendation of the Special Committee, and based on its considerations and
investigations, including a thorough review of the Arrangement, the Arrangement Agreement and other relevant matters, and taking into
account the best interests of the Company, and after consultation with management and its financial and legal advisors, has unanimously
determined that the Arrangement is fair to the Shareholders and that the Arrangement and the entering into of the Arrangement Agreement
are in the best interests of the Company. Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends that Shareholders vote FOR the Arrangement
Resolution. 

   

 Reasons
for the Recommendation 

   

 In
summary, in reaching its unanimous recommendation that Shareholders vote FOR the Arrangement Resolution, the Board determined
that the Arrangement presents a unique opportunity for the Company to create a larger, more diversified and cash-flowing royalty platform
with significant long-term growth potential. The following is a summary of certain business and strategic factors considered and relied
upon by the Board in reaching its determinations: 

   

 
 ● Immediate
 and Significant Cash Flow. The Arrangement would add a well-established, unique, cash-flowing
 royalty portfolio with relatively long mine lives. These interests would be underpinned by
 established and experienced operators and generate significant cash flows. 

   

 
 ● Enhanced
 Scale and Market Visibility. The additional future cash flows from the assets of the
 Sweetwater Entities would uniquely position New URC with a strengthened balance sheet to
 carry out its business strategy of pursuing additional value-enhancing uranium royalty acquisitions.
 The transaction would also be accretive to net asset value, cash flow and earnings per share.
 Among other things, the Arrangement is expected to position New URC more attractively to
 institutional investors and enhance its market visibility. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 
 ● Addition
 of Supportive Institutional Shareholders. On closing of the Arrangement, the Orion Sellers
 and Ontario Teachers’ are expected to hold approximately 43% and 16%, respectively
 (prior to the effects of any additional concurrent financing), of the outstanding New URC
 Shares. Each of them has agreed to execute an investors’ rights agreement (the “ Investors’
 Rights Agreement ”) at the closing of the Arrangement, which includes, among other
 things, agreements to vote in favour of management recommendations in respect of matters
 before shareholders of New URC for a period of two years after closing, subject to certain
 exceptions. They also include provisions providing for notices of certain sales and certain
 restrictions on dispositions, designed to help preserve control premiums for New URC Shareholders.
 

   

 
 ● Strategic
 Land Position with Additional Optionality. On closing of the Arrangement, New URC is
 expected to be one of the largest public company landowners in the United States (excluding
 real estate investment trusts) and one of the largest landowners in Wyoming (with approximately
 850,000 acres of fee surface rights and approximately 4.5 million acres of mineral rights
 in fee). The Sweetwater Entities’ extensive land package covers Wyoming’s Green River Basin,
 the world’s largest known trona deposit and would provide an element of control uncommon
 in the royalty space. 

   

 
 ● Future
 Growth Profile. The Sweetwater Entities’ operations have or are undertaking production
 expansions and based on operator disclosures and information, are expected to increase attributable
 soda ash production capacity by over 60% in the coming years, without requiring material
 additional capital investment from New URC. Greenfield projects have the potential to further
 increase total royalty attributable capacity over the longer term. Additionally, the Sweetwater
 Entities’ operations include renewable development opportunities, greenfield trona
 potential, and non-trona land with optionality and potential for future growth. 

   

 
 ● Enhanced
 Uranium Optionality. The Sweetwater Entities’ land position would provide potential uranium
 exploration in Wyoming, the leading U.S. state for uranium production and resources. 

   

 Required
Approvals 

   

 The
Arrangement Resolution must be approved, with or without variation, (i) by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes cast
on the Arrangement Resolution by Shareholders present in person or represented by proxy at the Meeting and (ii) by a simple majority
of the votes cast on the Arrangement Resolution by such Shareholders, excluding URC Shares held by certain “related parties”
and “interested parties” in accordance with MI 61-101. The Arrangement is also subject to a determination of the Supreme Court
of British Columbia that the Arrangement is fair and reasonable, both procedurally and substantively, to Shareholders. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 Voting
Support Agreements 

   

 Senior
officers and directors of the Company, along with the Company’s largest Shareholder, Uranium Energy Corp., have entered into support
and voting agreements with the Sweetwater Investors pursuant to which they have agreed to vote, or cause to be voted, all of the securities
of the Company held or controlled by them in favour of the Arrangement Resolution (representing approximately 14.37% of the issued and
outstanding URC Shares). 

   

 Shareholder
Questions and Voting Assistance 

   

 Shareholders
who have questions about the information contained in the Circular or need assistance with voting their shares may contact the Company’s
proxy solicitation agent, Laurel Hill Advisory Group: 

   

 Laurel
Hill Advisory Group 

   

 Toll-Free:
1-877-452-7184 (for Shareholders in North America) 

 International:
1-416-304-0211 (collect call for Shareholders outside North America) 

 Text
Message: Text “Info”, to 1-416-304-0211 or 1-877-452-7184. 

 By
Email: assistance@laurelhill.com 

   

 Election
Deadline 

   

 If
you are a registered Shareholder who is an Eligible Holder (or hold URC Shares on behalf of an Eligible Holder) and wish to receive Exchangeable
Shares as the form of consideration for all or part of your URC Shares, you must complete and deposit the Letter of Transmittal and Election
Form provided with the Meeting materials by 5:00 p.m. ET on Thursday, July 23, 2026 (the “ Election Deadline ”).
A copy of the Letter of Transmittal and Election Form is also available under the Company’s profile on SEDAR+. 

   

 Only
registered Shareholders should complete and deposit the Letter of Transmittal and Election Form directly. Eligible Holders whose URC
Shares are registered in the name of an intermediary should contact their intermediary as soon as possible for instructions and assistance
in delivering any certificate(s) or DRS statement(s) representing their URC Shares and, if applicable, making an election with respect
to the form of consideration they wish to receive. Beneficial owners should be aware that their intermediary’s deadline for electing
Exchangeable Shares may be earlier than the Election Deadline. 

   

 If
an Eligible Holder does not make a valid election to receive Exchangeable Shares in accordance with the applicable procedures and deadlines,
including, in the case of a registered Shareholder, by depositing a properly completed Letter of Transmittal and Election Form prior
to the Election Deadline or, in the case of a beneficial owner whose URC Shares are held through an intermediary, by providing the required
instructions and materials to such intermediary in accordance with the intermediary’s procedures and deadlines, such Eligible Holder
will receive, in respect of each URC Share for which no valid election was made, the consideration to which they are entitled in the
form of New URC Shares. 

   

 About
Uranium Royalty Corp. 

   

 URC
is the world’s only uranium-focused royalty and streaming company and the only pure-play uranium listed company on the NASDAQ. URC provides
investors with uranium commodity price exposure through strategic acquisitions in uranium interests, including royalties, streams, debt
and equity in uranium companies, as well as through trading of physical uranium. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 Forward-Looking
Information 

   

 Certain
statements in this news release may constitute “forward-looking information”, including those regarding the terms of any potential
concurrent financing and the expected completion and use of proceeds thereof, which ultimately remains the subject of the Company’s discretion.
Forward-looking information includes statements that address or discuss activities, events or developments that the Company expects or
anticipates may occur in the future. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements with respect completion of
the Arrangement and the timing thereof; receipt of required shareholder, court, stock exchange, regulatory and other approvals; the anticipated
ownership, governance, capitalization and listing of New URC following completion of the Arrangement; the anticipated consideration payable
under the Arrangement; the anticipated benefits of the Arrangement, including enhanced scale, diversification, cash flow, accretion,
market visibility and growth potential; the anticipated effects of the Investors’ Rights Agreement and related arrangements; and
expected production expansions and future growth opportunities associated with the Sweetwater Entities’ operations and the Sweetwater
Entities’ land package. When used in this news release, words such as “estimates”, “expects”, “plans”,
“anticipates”, “will”, “believes”, “intends” “should”, “could”, “may”
and other similar terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking information. Statements constituting forward-looking information
reflect the current expectations and beliefs of the Company’s management. These statements involve significant uncertainties, known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors and, therefore, actual results, performance or achievements of the Company and its industry
may be materially different from those implied by such forward-looking statements. They should not be read as a guarantee of future performance
or results, and will not necessarily be an accurate indication of whether or not such results will be achieved. A number of factors could
cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking information, including, without limitation, risks inherent to royalty
companies, any inability to satisfy the conditions of the Arrangement, market conditions, share price, uranium price volatility and risks
related to the operators of the projects underlying the Company’s existing and proposed interests and those other risks described in
filings with Canadian securities regulators and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks, as well as others, could cause
actual results and events to vary significantly. Accordingly, readers should exercise caution in relying upon forward-looking information
and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by
law. 

   

 SOURCE
Uranium Royalty Corp. 

   

 For
further information : Scott Melbye - Chief Executive Officer, Email: smelbye@uraniumroyalty.com; Investor Relations: Toll Free: 1.855.396.8222,
Email: info@uraniumroyalty.com, Website: www.UraniumRoyalty.com; Corporate Office: 1188 West Georgia Street, Suite 1830, Vancouver, BC,
V6E 4A2, Phone: 604.396.8222 

   

 

 
   
 

   

 
 
 
 
