 
 EX-99.1
 2
 ex99-1.htm
 EX-99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

 Exhibit 99.1 

   

 Form
51-102F3 

 Material
Change Report 

   

 
 Item
 1 Name
 and Address of Company 

   

 Uranium
Royalty Corp. (“ URC ” or the “ Company ”) 

 Suite
1830 – 1188 West Georgia Street 

 Vancouver,
BC 

 V6E
4A2 

   

 
 Item
 2 Date
 of Material Change 

   

 April
16, 2026. 

   

 
 Item
 3 News
 Release 

   

 On
April 16, 2026, a news release in respect of the material change was disseminated through GlobeNewswire and a copy thereof has been filed
under the Company’s profile on the System for Electronic Data Analysis and Retrieval + (“ SEDAR +”). 

   

 
 Item
 4 Summary
 of Material Change 

   

 On
April 16, 2026, the Company entered into an arrangement agreement (the “ Arrangement Agreement ”) to combine with entities
owning a 92% interest in Sweetwater Royalties LLC (“ Sweetwater ”) from funds managed by Orion Resource Partners LP
(“ Orion ”) and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan (“ Ontario Teachers’ “, together with
Orion, the “ Sellers ”) (the “ Transaction ”). The Transaction implies a 100% enterprise value for
Sweetwater of approximately US$1.9 billion (based on US$625 million of debt outstanding as of April 1, 2026) and an attributable equity
value to be acquired by URC of approximately US$1.1 billion. 

   

 Under
the Transaction, Sweetwater and URC will combine under a newly formed U.S. domiciled parent company, “Uranium Royalty Corp.”
(“ New URC ”), which will apply to have its shares of common stock (“ New URC Shares ”) listed on the
Nasdaq Capital Market. On completion of the Transaction, the Sellers will receive approximately US$330 million in cash and US$813 million
in New URC Shares at a deemed value of US$3.64 per New URC Share, subject to adjustment under the Arrangement Agreement. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 
 Item
 5 Full
 Description of Material Change 

   

 Arrangement
Agreement 

   

 On
April 16, 2026, the Company entered into the Arrangement Agreement in connection with the Transaction. The following description of the
Arrangement Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Arrangement
Agreement, which has been separately filed by the Company with the Canadian securities regulators and is available on SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Sections” or “Articles” are to the applicable provisions of the Arrangement
Agreement, and capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined have the meanings given to them in the Arrangement Agreement. The Transaction
implies a 100% enterprise value for Sweetwater of approximately US$1.9 billion (based on US$625 million of debt outstanding as of April
2026) and an attributable equity value to be acquired by URC of approximately US$1.1 billion. 

   

 Under
the Transaction, Sweetwater and URC will combine under New URC, which will apply to have the New URC Shares listed on the Nasdaq Capital
Market. On completion of the Transaction, the Sellers will receive approximately US$330 million in cash and US$813 million in New URC
Shares at a deemed value of US$3.64 per New URC Share, subject to adjustment under the Arrangement Agreement. 

   

 Summary
of the Transaction 

   

 The
Transaction will be effected by way of a statutory plan of arrangement under the Canada Business Corporations Act (the “ Arrangement ”).
Prior to completion of the Arrangement, Orion and Ontario Teachers’ will contribute their interests in Sweetwater to New URC. Under
the Arrangement, among other things, URC shareholders will exchange their URC shares for New URC Shares on the basis of one New URC Share
for each URC common share held at the effective time of the Arrangement or, in the case of electing eligible Canadian shareholders, exchangeable
shares in a Canadian subsidiary of New URC. On completion of the Transaction, the Sellers will receive approximately US$330 million in
cash and approximately US$813 million in New URC Shares at a deemed value of US$3.64 per New URC Share, in each case subject to adjustment
in accordance with the Arrangement Agreement. On completion of the Transaction, New URC will be the publicly traded parent company of
the combined group. 

   

 The
Transaction is subject to, among other things, approval of at least 66 2/3% of the votes cast by URC shareholders in person or by proxy
at a special meeting of URC shareholders to be called to consider the Arrangement, requisite court approval, approval for the listing
of the New URC Shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the receipt of required regulatory approvals, and the satisfaction or waiver of other
customary closing conditions. A shareholder meeting is expected to occur on or about July 2026, with closing thereafter subject to the
satisfaction or waiver of the applicable conditions. 

   

 Immediately
following completion of the Transaction, and prior to the effects of any subsequent financing, existing URC shareholders, Orion and Ontario
Teachers’ are expected to hold approximately 41%, 43% and 16%, respectively, of the outstanding New URC Shares. Eligible Canadian
shareholders will be entitled to elect to receive exchangeable shares in a Canadian subsidiary of New URC in lieu of New URC Shares,
which shares will be exchangeable into New URC Shares and will have equivalent economic and voting rights as the New URC Shares. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 In
connection with the Transaction, Uranium Energy Corp. and certain of the directors and executive officers of URC, in respect of approximately
14% of the outstanding URC common shares, have entered into customary voting agreements agreeing to vote those URC common shares in favour
of the Transaction. The foregoing description of such voting agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety
by reference to the full text of such agreements. The Arrangement Agreement also contains customary provisions, including non-solicitation
covenants, notice obligations in respect of Acquisition Proposals and other customary deal protection provisions. 

   

 The
board of directors of the Company has unanimously determined that the Arrangement is in the best interests of URC and is fair to URC
shareholders, and unanimously recommends that URC shareholders vote in favour of the Arrangement. As of the date of the Arrangement Agreement,
URC had received the opinion of its financial advisor that, subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications set out therein,
the consideration to be received by URC shareholders pursuant to the Transaction is fair, from a financial point of view, to URC shareholders.
Additional details regarding the background to the Transaction, the terms and conditions of the Arrangement Agreement and the rationale
for the recommendation of the board of directors of the Company will be included in the management information circular to be mailed
to URC shareholders in connection with the special meeting to consider the Arrangement. The management information circular will also
include details as to how URC shareholders can participate in and vote at that meeting and will be made available under URC’s profile
on SEDAR+. 

   

 Transaction
Funding 

   

 To
finance a portion of the cash consideration under the Transaction, Uranium Energy Corp. (“ UEC ”) has agreed to subscribe
for subscription receipts of URC at a price of US$3.64 per subscription receipt, for total proceeds of US$40 million (the “ UEC
Subscription ”). Each UEC subscription receipt will automatically convert into one URC Share in the event all escrow release
conditions set out in the subscription agreement are satisfied, including satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the Arrangement,
receipt of conditional approval of the Arrangement from Toronto Stock Exchange and requisite approval from URC shareholders of the Arrangement.
Closing of the UEC Subscription is expected to occur shortly after receipt of conditional approval of the Toronto Stock Exchange, with
the subscription funds to be held in escrow pending satisfaction of the escrow release conditions. Following confirmation of the escrow
release conditions and delivery of a release notice to the escrow agent, the release of escrowed funds will occur immediately prior to
closing of the Arrangement and conversion of the subscription receipts will occur immediately prior to closing of the transactions in
the sequence set out in the Plan of Arrangement. In the event that the escrow release conditions are not satisfied prior to the Outside
Date, or the Arrangement Agreement is terminated, the subscription receipts will expire and UEC will be entitled to receive a refund
of the escrowed funds. Based on the current outstanding shares and the number of New URC Shares to be issued (assuming no additional
financing is completed prior to closing), UEC would own approximately 8% of New URC on completion of the Arrangement. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 The
Company expects to fund the cash portion of the acquisition by means of existing cash on hand, the UEC Subscription, and additional existing
liquidity. Prior to closing of the Transaction, New URC intends to pursue external financing sources. 

   

 Under
the Arrangement Agreement, the proportion of cash and New URC Shares to be received by the Sellers will be adjusted in the event that
URC completes a financing prior to closing of the Transaction. In such event, 80% of any excess net proceeds received beyond US$92 million
will be utilized to reduce the New URC Share consideration to the Sellers under the Arrangement. 

   

 Transaction
Structure 

   

 Immediately
prior to the Transaction, Orion and Ontario Teachers’ will have transferred their Sweetwater interests to New URC. Pursuant to
the Arrangement, a number of steps will occur at closing, including URC shareholders exchanging their URC shares for one share of New
URC (or, in the case of electing eligible Canadian URC shareholders, one Exchangeable Share (as defined below)). 

   

 Eligible
Canadian shareholders of URC will be able to elect to receive, for each common share, exchangeable shares in a Canadian subsidiary of
New URC (the “ Exchangeable Shares ”), which will be exchangeable into shares of New URC for a period of up to 10 years
after completion, instead of shares of New URC to which they would otherwise be entitled at completion. The Exchangeable Shares will
have equivalent economic and voting rights as the shares of New URC. 

   

 Each
URC Option (whether vested or unvested) outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the effective time will be exchanged for a URC
Replacement Option to acquire such number of New URC shares equal to the number of URC shares subject to such URC Option immediately
before the effective time. 

   

 Shareholder
Rights Agreements 

   

 In
connection with the Transaction, Orion, Ontario Teachers’ and URC will enter into an investor rights and support agreement, which
will include customary terms, among other things, that Orion and Ontario Teachers’: 

   

 
 ● Will
 vote New URC Shares in support of management recommendations on certain matters for a period
 of two years following closing of the Transaction, other than matters relating to changes
 to constating documents or certain fundamental transactions such as mergers, business combinations,
 restructurings, and other corporate transactions; and 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 
 ● For
 a period of the earlier of two years after closing of the Arrangement or until such time
 as Orion or Ontario Teachers’, as applicable, hold less than 10% of the outstanding
 New URC Shares: 

   

 
 ○ Provide
 notice of certain proposed sales of New URC Shares and have agreed to certain restrictions
 relating to sales of New URC Shares to certain counterparties, including any counterparty
 that would hold more than 10% of the outstanding New URC Shares as a result of such sale; 
 
       
 
 ○ Will
 agree not to dispose of any New URC Shares for six months after closing of the Arrangement,
 unless the volume weighted average price of the New URC Shares exceeds C$7.50 over any 20
 day trading period commencing 90 days after closing of the Arrangement; and 

   

 Orion
and Ontario Teachers’ will have pro rata board nomination rights with rights for up to two directors joining from Orion and one
from Ontario Teachers’. The resulting combined representation will be capped below 50%. 

   

 The
investor rights and support agreement will also grant Orion and Ontario Teachers’ customary anti-dilution rights for a period of
two years after closing and customary registration rights, including the right to require New URC to file and maintain a shelf registration
statement covering the resale of their New URC Shares, as well as customary demand and piggyback registration rights, in each case subject
to customary restrictions and limitations. 

   

 Following
completion of the Transaction, New URC will continue to be led by Scott Melbye as President and Chief Executive Officer and Amir Adnani
as Chairman. Sweetwater will continue to operate under the leadership of Chief Executive Officer Damon Barber. 

   

 Termination
Rights and Termination Payments 

   

 The
Arrangement Agreement may be terminated prior to the Effective Time by mutual written agreement of URC and the Sweetwater Investors.
The Arrangement Agreement may also be terminated by either URC or the Sweetwater Investors if the Effective Time has not occurred on
or before the Outside Date, subject to the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, if any applicable Law permanently prohibits, enjoins or
renders illegal the consummation of the Transaction and such Law has become final and non-appealable, or if the required URC shareholder
approval is not obtained at the URC shareholder meeting in accordance with the Interim Order, applicable Law and the Arrangement Agreement.
In addition, the Sweetwater Investors may terminate the Arrangement Agreement if URC breaches a representation, warranty, covenant or
agreement in a manner that would cause certain of the conditions to closing in favour of the Sweetwater Investors not to be satisfied,
subject to the applicable cure provisions and other terms of the Arrangement Agreement. URC may similarly terminate the Arrangement Agreement
if the Sweetwater Investors breach a representation, warranty, covenant or agreement in a manner that would cause certain of the conditions
to closing in favour of URC not to be satisfied, subject to the applicable cure provisions and other terms of the Arrangement Agreement. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 The
Arrangement Agreement provides that, if the Arrangement Agreement is terminated as a result of a failure to obtain the required URC shareholder
approval, URC will be required to pay the Sweetwater Investors an amount equal to the Sweetwater Investor Expenses Amount, being the
reasonable and documented out-of-pocket fees, costs and expenses of the Sweetwater Investors in connection with the Arrangement Agreement
and related transaction documents, up to a maximum of US$3.0 million, within two business days following such termination, subject to
the terms of the Arrangement Agreement. In addition, if a bona fide Acquisition Proposal in respect of URC has been made, publicly announced
or otherwise publicly disclosed, or an intention to make such an Acquisition Proposal has been publicly announced or otherwise publicly
disclosed, and within 12 months following such termination URC or one or more of its subsidiaries enters into a definitive agreement
providing for such an Acquisition Proposal or such an Acquisition Proposal is consummated, URC will be required to pay the Sweetwater
Investors the Shareholder Approval Termination Payment of US$17.0 million, in addition to the Sweetwater Investor Expenses Amount, in
each case subject to the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, provided that, for this purpose, references to “Acquisition Proposal”
are subject to the modified threshold set out in the Arrangement Agreement. 

   

 MI
61-101 Disclosure 

   

 The
UEC Subscription constitutes a related-party transaction under Multilateral Instrument 61-101 – Protection of Minority Security
Holders in Special Transactions (“ MI 61-101 ”). The sale of subscription receipts to UEC is exempt from the formal
valuation and minority shareholder approval requirements of MI 61-101 pursuant to sections 5.5(a) and 5.7(1)(a) of MI 61-101 as neither
the fair market value of any securities issued to, nor the consideration paid by, UEC exceeded 25.0% of the Company’s market capitalization.
The board of directors of the Company, with directors who are officers or employees of UEC abstaining, and the independent directors
of the Company (as such term is defined in MI 61-101), acting in good faith, determined that the UEC Subscription is in the best interests
of the Company. The Company did not file a material change report 21 days prior to closing of the UEC Subscription, as the aforementioned
insider participation had not been confirmed at that time and the Company wished to close the transaction as soon as practicable for
sound business reasons. 

   

 
 Item
 6 Reliance
 on subsection 7.1(2) of National Instrument 51-102 

   

 Not
applicable. 

   

 
 Item
 7 Omitted
 Information 

   

 None. 

   

 

 
   
   
 

   

 
 Item
 8 Executive
 Officer 

   

 The
following executive officer of the Company is knowledgeable about the material change and this report: 

   

 Andrew
Marshall 

 Chief
Financial Officer 

 Phone:
604-396-8222 

   

 
 Item
 9 Date
 of Report 

   

 April
27, 2026. 

   

 Forward-Looking
Information 

   

 This
document may contain “forward-looking information” within the meaning of Canadian securities legislation and “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (collectively, “ forward-looking
statements ”). Forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance and reflect the Company’s expectations
or beliefs regarding future events. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements with respect to the consummation
and timing of the Transaction; approval by the Company’s shareholders; the satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the Transaction;
the strengths, characteristics and potential of New URC post-Transaction; growth potential of New URC, timing, receipt and anticipated
effects of court and other approvals; and the Company’s ability to finance the cash consideration under the Arrangement. When used
in this material change report, words such as “estimates”, “expects”, “plans”, “anticipates”,
“will”, “believes”, “intends” “should”, “could”, “may” and other
similar terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking information. Statements constituting forward-looking information reflect
the current expectations and beliefs of the Company’s management. These statements involve significant uncertainties, known and
unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and, therefore, actual results, performance or achievements of the Company and its industry
may be materially different from those implied by such forward-looking statements. They should not be read as a guarantee of future performance
or results and will not necessarily be an accurate indication of whether or not such results will be achieved. A number of factors could
cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking information, including, without limitation, risks related to failure
to receive requisite URC shareholder approval or court approval of the Transaction; any inability to satisfy the conditions to the Transaction,
any inability of URC to complete necessary financing, including to fund the cash consideration under the Transaction, risks inherent
to royalty companies, uranium and soda ash price volatility, risks related to the operators of the projects underlying the Company’s
and Sweetwater’s existing and proposed interests and those other risks described in filings with Canadian securities regulators
and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks, as well as others, could cause actual results and events to vary significantly.
Accordingly, readers should exercise caution in relying upon forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements are made as of the
date of this document and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances,
except as required by law. 

   

 

 
   
 

   

 
 
 
 
