NVIDIA CORP
FORM DEF 14A
(Proxy Statement (definitive))
Filed 04/08/11 for the Period Ending 05/18/11
  
  
Address
2701 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY
SANTA CLARA, CA 95050
Telephone
408-486-2000
CIK
0001045810
Symbol
NVDA
SIC Code
3674 - Semiconductors and Related Devices
Industry
Semiconductors
Sector
Technology
Fiscal Year
01/26
http://www.edgar-online.com
© Copyright 2014, EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Distribution and use of this document restricted under EDGAR Online, Inc. Terms of Use.

Table of Contents  
UNITED STATES  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
Washington, D.C. 20549  
SCHEDULE 14A  
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a)  
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
(Amendment No. )  
Filed by the Registrant                        Filed by a Party other than the  Registrant   /box2  
Check the appropriate box:  
   
   
   
   
   
N VIDIA C ORPORATION     
(Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)  
       
(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other  than the Registrant)  
Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):  
   
   
   
       
       
       
       
       
   
   
   
       
       
/box2 Preliminary Proxy Statement 
/box2 Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as pe rmitted by Rule 14a -6(e)(2)) 
 Definitive Proxy Statement 
/box2 Definitive Additional Materials 
/box2 Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a -12 
 No fee required. 
/box2 Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a -6(i)(1) and 0 -11. 
  (1) Title of each class of securities to which transact ion applies: 
  (2) Aggregate number of securities to which transaction  applies: 
  (3) Per unit price or other underlying value of transac tion computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0 -11 (set forth the amount on 
which the filing fee is calculated and state how it  was determined): 
  (4) Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction: 
  (5) Total fee paid: 
/box2 Fee paid previously with preliminary materials. 
/box2 Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provi ded by Exchange Act Rule 0 -11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offs etting fee 
was paid previously. Identify the previous filing b y registration statement number, or the Form or Sch edule and the date of its filing. 
  (1) Amount Previously Paid: 
  (2) Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.: 
  (3) Filing Party: 
       
       
  (4) Date Filed: 
Table of Contents  
  
   
   
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  
TO BE HELD ON MAY 18, 2011  
Dear Stockholder:  
You are cordially invited to attend the 2011 Annual  Meeting of Stockholders of NVIDIA Corporation whic h will take place on Wednesday, 
May 18, 2011, at 9:00 a.m. pacific daylight time fo r the following purposes:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
You can attend our 2011 Annual Meeting in person by  going to Building E of our headquarters located at  2800 Scott Boulevard, Santa 
Clara, California, 95050. Please see the map at the  end of the attached proxy statement for directions  to Building E of our headquarters. In the 
alternative, you can attend the 2011 Annual Meeting  online and vote your shares and submit your questi ons electronically during the meeting by 
visiting www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011 .  
The items of business for the 2011 Annual Meeting a re more fully described in the attached proxy state ment. Only stockholders who owned 
our stock at the close of business on March 21, 201 1 may vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting or any adjour nments, continuations or postponements 
of the meeting.  
We are pleased to take advantage of the U.S. Securi ties and Exchange Commission rule that allows compa nies to furnish proxy materials to 
their stockholders over the Internet. On or about A pril 8, 2011, we mailed to our stockholders (other than those who previously requested 
electronic or paper delivery) a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, or the Notice, con taining instructions on how to access our 
proxy materials, including our proxy statement and annual report. The Notice also instructs you on how  to access your proxy card to vote over 
the Internet. Your vote is important. Whether or no t you plan to attend the 2011 Annual Meeting, PLEASE VOTE YOUR SHARES .  
We look forward to seeing you at the 2011 Annual Me eting.  
By Order of the Board of Directors  
  
David M. Shannon  
Secretary  
Santa Clara, California  
April 8, 2011  
Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Prox y Materials  
for the Annual Meeting to be Held on May 18, 2011  
This Notice, Proxy Statement, our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Stockholder Letter  
can be accessed electronically at  
www.nvidia.com/proxy  
NVIDIA CORPORATION      
Headquarters      Meeting Location 
2701 S AN T OMAS E XPRESSWAY      2800 S COTT B OULEVARD 
S ANTA C LARA , C ALIFORNIA 95050      S ANTA C LARA , C ALIFORNIA 95050 
     Online Location 
     www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011 
  
  1. To elect two directors nominated by the Board of Di rectors to hold office until our 2014 Annual Meetin g of Stockholders; 
  2. To amend our Certificate of Incorporation to declas sify the Board of Directors such that all directors  are elected on an annual basis by 
2014; 
  3. To hold an advisory vote on executive compensation;  
  4. To hold an advisory vote on the frequency of holdin g an advisory vote on executive compensation; 
  5. To ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers L LP as our independent registered public accounting firm for our fiscal year ending 
January 29, 2012; and 
  6. To conduct any other business properly brought befo re the 2011 Annual Meeting. 

Table of Contents  
T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  
   
     
P 
AGE   
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS       1    
PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS       8    
PROPOSAL 2—AMENDMENT TO NVIDIA’S AMENDED AND RESTAT ED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION TO 
ELIMINATE CLASSIFIED BOARD STRUCTURE       11    
INFORMATION ABOUT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE       13    
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTI CIPATION       22    
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION       22    
PROPOSAL 3 — ADVISORY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       24    
PROPOSAL 4 — ADVISORY VOTE ON THE FREQUENCY OF HOLDING AN ADVISO RY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE 
COMPENSATION       25    
PROPOSAL 5—RATIFICATION OF SELECTION OF INDEPENDENT  REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FOR 
FISCAL YEAR 2012       26    
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR INFORMATION        27    
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND  MANAGEMENT       30    
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       32    
Compensation Discussion and Analysis       32    
Risk Analysis of our Compensation Plans       49    
Summary Compensation Table For Fiscal Years 2011, 2 010 and 2009       50    
Grants of Plan -Based Awards For Fiscal Year 2011       52    
Outstanding Equity Awards as of January 30, 2011       54    
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 20 11       56    
Employment, Severance and Change -In -Control Agreements       57    
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change -In -Control       58    
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT       59    
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION       59    
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION       61    
Review of Transactions with Related Persons       61    
Transactions with Related Persons       61    
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compli ance       61    
Other Matters       62    
APPENDIX A       A-1    
Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Ce rtificate of Incorporation       A-1    
Table of Contents  
NVIDIA CORPORATION  
2701 S AN T OMAS E XPRESSWAY  
S ANTA C LARA , C ALIFORNIA 95050  
   
P ROXY S TATEMENT  
F OR THE 2011 A NNUAL M EETING OF S TOCKHOLDERS  
M AY  18, 2011  
   
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS  
Why am I receiving these materials?  
Your proxy is being solicited on behalf of the Boar d of Directors, or the Board, of NVIDIA Corporation , a Delaware corporation. Your 
proxy is for use at our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stoc kholders, or the 2011 Annual Meeting, to be held on  Wednesday, May 18, 2011, at 9:00 a.m. 
pacific daylight time. This proxy statement contain s important information regarding the 2011 Annual M eeting, the proposals on which you are 
being asked to vote, information you may find usefu l in determining how to vote and voting procedures.   
How can I attend the 2011 Annual Meeting?  
You can attend our 2011 Annual Meeting in person or  you can attend and participate via the Internet.  
Attending In Person .    Our 2011 Annual Meeting will take place in Bui lding E of our headquarters located at 2800 Scott B oulevard, Santa 
Clara, California 95050. Our principal executive of fices are located at 2701 San Tomas Expressway, San ta Clara, California 95050, and our 
telephone number is (408) 486-2000. Please see the map at the end of this proxy statement for directio ns to the 2011 Annual Meeting.  
Attending and Participating Online .    You may also attend the 2011 Annual Meeting vi a the Internet at 
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011 . Stockholders may vote and submit questions while attending the meeting on the Internet. 
You will need the 12-digit control number included on your Notice or proxy card (if you received a pri nted copy of the proxy materials) to enter 
the meeting via the Internet. Instructions on how t o attend and participate via the Internet, includin g how to demonstrate proof of stock 
ownership, are posted at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011 .  
Non-stockholders can also listen to the 2011 Annual  Meeting live at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011 . An archived copy 
of the webcast will be available at www.nvidia.com/proxy through June 3, 2011.  
Why did I receive a Notice in the mail regarding th e Internet availability of proxy materials this yea r instead of a full set of proxy 
materials?  
We are pleased to take advantage of the U.S. Securi ties and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rule that all ows companies to furnish their 
proxy materials over the Internet. On or about Apri l 8, 2011, we sent stockholders who own our common stock at the close of business on 
March 21, 2011 (other than those who previously req uested electronic or paper delivery) a Notice of In ternet Availability of Proxy Materials, or 
the Notice, containing instructions on how to acces s our proxy materials, including our proxy statemen t and our fiscal year 2011 annual report. 
The Notice also instructs you on how to access your  proxy card to vote over the Internet or  
   
1  
  
  
Table of Contents  
by telephone. In addition, the Notice contains inst ructions on how to request a paper copy of our prox y materials, including this proxy statement, 
our fiscal year 2011 annual report and a form of pr oxy card or voting instruction card. The Notice als o provides instructions on how you can 
elect to receive future proxy materials electronica lly or in printed form by mail. If you choose to re ceive future proxy materials electronically, 
you will receive an email next year with instructio ns containing a link to the proxy materials and a l ink to the proxy voting site. Your election to 
receive proxy materials electronically or in printe d form by mail will remain in effect until you term inate such election. We believe that this 
process allows us to provide our stockholders with the information they need in a more timely manner, while reducing the environmental impact 
and lowering the costs of printing and distributing  our proxy materials.  
Why did I receive a full set of proxy materials in the mail instead of a Notice regarding the Internet  availability of proxy materials?  
We are providing stockholders who have previously r equested to receive paper copies of the proxy mater ials with paper copies of the 
proxy materials instead of a Notice. If you would l ike to reduce the environmental impact and the cost s incurred by us in mailing proxy 
materials, you may elect to receive all future prox y materials electronically via email or the Interne t.  
If you make this election, you will receive an emai l message shortly after the proxy statement is rele ased containing the Internet link to 
access our Notice, proxy statement and fiscal year 2011 annual report. The email also will include ins tructions for voting on the Internet.  
In order to receive these materials electronically,  you must follow the applicable procedure below:  
Stockholders of Record .    If you are a stockholder of record, you can ch oose to receive our future proxy materials electron ically by 
following the instructions to vote on the Internet at www.proxyvote.com and when prompted, indicate that you agree to acces s stockholder 
communications electronically in future years.  
Street Name Holders .    If your shares are held in street name, you ca n choose to receive our future proxy materials elec tronically by 
visiting www.icsdelivery.com/nvda .  
Your choice to receive proxy materials electronical ly will remain in effect until you contact our Inve stor Relations Department and tell us 
otherwise. You may visit the Investor Relations sec tion of our website at www.nvidia.com , send an electronic mail message to 
irelectronicdelivery@nvidia.com or contact our Investor Relations Department by mai l at 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, Califo rnia 
95050.  
The SEC has enacted rules that permit us to make av ailable to stockholders electronic versions of the proxy materials even if the 
stockholder has not previously elected to receive t he materials in this manner. We have chosen this op tion in connection with the 2011 Annual 
Meeting, and if you have not previously requested t o receive electronic or paper delivery, you should have received by mail, a Notice instructing 
you how to access the materials on the Internet and  how to vote your shares.  
Who can vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting?  
Stockholders of record at the close of business on March 21, 2011, the record date, will be entitled t o vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting. On 
each matter to be voted upon, stockholders have one  vote for each share of NVIDIA common stock owned b y such stockholder as of March 21, 
2011. On the record date, there were 595,125,429 sh ares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vo te. A list of stockholders entitled to vote 
at the 2011 Annual Meeting will be available at our  headquarters, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Cla ra, California for 10 days prior to the 
2011 Annual Meeting. If you would like to view the stockholder list, please call our Stock Administrat ion Department at (408) 486-2000 to 
schedule an appointment.  
   
2  
Table of Contents  
What is the difference between a stockholder of rec ord and a beneficial owner?  
Stockholder of Record .    You are a stockholder of record if at the clos e of business on March 21, 2011 your shares were re gistered directly 
in your name with BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, o ur transfer agent.  
Beneficial Owner .    You are a beneficial owner if your shares were  held through a broker or other nominee and not in your name at the 
close of business on March 21, 2011. Being a benefi cial owner means that, like most of our stockholder s, your shares are held in street name and 
your broker sends the Notice or the proxy materials  to you. As a beneficial owner, your broker or othe r nominee is the stockholder of record of 
your shares. You have the right to direct your brok er on how to vote the shares in your account. Howev er, because you are not the stockholder of 
record, if you would like to vote your shares in pe rson or online at the 2011 Annual Meeting you must obtain a legally valid proxy from your 
broker prior to the 2011 Annual Meeting. Because of  a change in New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, rule s, your broker will not be able to 
vote your shares on the election of directors, nor on the advisory vote on executive compensation or o n the frequency of holding advisory votes 
on executive compensation, unless they receive spec ific instructions from you. Therefore, you MUST give your broker instructions i n order 
for your vote to be counted on the proposals to ele ct directors, to conduct an advisory vote on execut ive compensation and to conduct an 
advisory vote on the frequency of holding advisory votes on executive compensation. We strongly encour age you to vote.  
What am I voting on?  
There are five matters scheduled for a vote:  
   
   
   
   
   
In addition, you are entitled to vote on any other matters that are properly brought before the 2011 A nnual Meeting.  
How does the Board recommend that I vote?  
The Board recommends that you vote:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
3  
  1. To elect two directors nominated by the Board to ho ld office until our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockhol ders; 
  2. To amend our Certificate of Incorporation to declas sify the Board such that all directors are elected on an annual basis by 2014; 
  3. To hold an advisory vote on executive compensation;  
  4. To hold an advisory vote on the frequency of holdin g an advisory vote on executive compensation; and 
  5. To ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCooper s LLP as our independent registered public accounti ng firm for our fiscal year 
ending January 29, 2012. 
  •   FOR the election of the two directors nominated by the Board to hold office until our 2014 Annual Meet ing of Stockholders;  
  •   FOR the amendment to our Certificate of Incorporati on to declassify the Board such that all directors are elected on an annual basis by 
2014;  
  •   FOR the approval, on an advisory basis, of the comp ensation of our named executive officers;  
  •   FOR the approval, on an advisory basis, of 1 YEAR a s the preferred frequency at which NVIDIA should ho ld an advisory vote on 
executive compensation; and  
  •   FOR the ratification of the appointment of Pricewat erhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered pu blic accounting firm for our 
fiscal year ending January 29, 2012.  
Table of Contents  
How do I vote?  
You may either vote FOR any nominee to the Board, you may WITHHOLD your vote for any nominee or you may ABSTAIN from 
voting for any nominee. For the proposal to approve , on an advisory basis, the frequency of the adviso ry vote on executive compensation, you 
may vote for 1 YEAR , 2 YEARS , or 3 YEARS as the preferred frequency or you may ABSTAIN from voting for a preferred frequency. For 
each other matter to be voted on, you may vote FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN from voting.  
Stockholder of Record .    If you are a stockholder of record, there are four ways for you to vote your shares.  
In Person .    You may vote in person by coming to the 2011 A nnual Meeting. Even if you plan to attend the 2011 Annual Meeting, we 
urge you to vote by proxy prior to the 2011 Annual Meeting to ensure your vote is counted.  
By Proxy .    If you received printed proxy materials, you m ay submit your proxy by mail by signing your proxy card. If you provide 
specific voting instructions, your shares will be v oted as you have instructed.  
By Telephone or Internet .    You may submit your proxy by following the ins tructions provided in the Notice to vote over the I nternet. If 
you received a printed version of the proxy materia ls by mail, you may submit your proxy by following the instructions provided with your 
proxy materials and on your proxy card to vote over  the Internet or by telephone.  
Beneficial Owner .    If you are a beneficial owner, you should have  received a Notice or voting instructions from your  broker. You should 
follow the instructions in the Notice or voting ins tructions in order to instruct your broker on how t o vote your shares. The broker holding your 
shares may allow you to deliver your voting instruc tions by telephone or over the Internet. If your No tice or voting instructions do not include 
telephone or Internet instructions, please complete  and return your Notice or voting instructions prom ptly by mail. To vote in person or online at 
the 2011 Annual Meeting, you must obtain a valid pr oxy from your broker.  
What is a broker non-vote?  
Broker non-votes occur when a beneficial owner of s hares held in “street name” does not give instructions to the broker or nominee 
holding the shares as to how to vote on matters dee med “non-routine.” Generally, if shares are held in street name, the beneficial owner of the 
shares is entitled to give voting instructions to t he broker or nominee holding the shares. If the ben eficial owner does not provide voting 
instructions, the broker or nominee can still vote the shares with respect to matters that are conside red to be “routine,” but not with respect to 
“non-routine” matters. Under the rules and interpretations of the NYSE, “non-routine” matters are matters that may substantially affect t he rights 
or privileges of stockholders, such as mergers, sto ckholder proposals, election of directors (even if not contested) and, for the first time, under a 
new amendment to the NYSE rules, executive compensa tion, including the advisory votes on executive com pensation and on the frequency of 
holding advisory votes on executive compensation.  
How are votes counted?  
Votes will be counted by the inspector of election appointed for the 2011 Annual Meeting, who will sep arately count, with regard to 
Proposal 1, the election of two members to our Boar d named in this proxy statement, FOR votes, WITHHOLD votes, ABSTAIN votes and 
broker non-votes; with regard to Proposal 4, the ad visory vote on the frequency of holding advisory vo tes on executive compensation, votes for 
1 
YEAR , 2 YEARS and 3 YEARS as the preferred frequency, ABSTAIN votes and broker non-votes; and with respect to the  other proposals, 
FOR votes, AGAINST votes, ABSTAIN votes and broker non-votes.  
With regard to Proposal 1, the election of director s, shares not present at the meeting, shares voting  ABSTAIN and broker non-votes will 
have no effect. With regard to Proposal 2, the amen dment of the Certificate  
   
4  
Table of Contents  
of Incorporation to declassify the Board, shares no t present at the meeting, shares voting ABSTAIN and broker non-votes will have the same 
effect as an AGAINST vote. With regard to the other proposals, shares vo ting ABSTAIN will have the same effect as an AGAINST vote, and 
shares not present at the meeting and broker non-vo tes will have no effect.  
If you are a stockholder of record and you returned  a signed and dated proxy card without marking any voting selections, your shares will 
be voted FOR each of the nominees listed in Proposal 1, FOR Proposals 2, 3 and 5 and for 1 YEAR as the preferred frequency (Proposal 4). If 
any other matter is properly presented at the 2011 Annual Meeting, either Jen-Hsun Huang or David M. S hannon as your proxy will vote your 
shares using his best judgment.  
May I change my vote after submitting my proxy?  
Yes. If you are a stockholder of record, you may re voke your proxy at any time before the final vote a t the 2011 Annual Meeting in any 
one of the following four ways:  
   
   
   
   
What is the quorum requirement?  
We need a quorum of stockholders to hold our 2011 A nnual Meeting. A quorum exists when at least a majo rity of the outstanding shares 
entitled to vote at the close of business on March 21, 2011 are represented at the 2011 Annual Meeting  either in person or by proxy. On the 
record date, there were 595,125,429 shares of commo n stock outstanding and entitled to vote, meaning t hat 297,562,715 shares must be 
represented in person or by proxy to have a quorum.   
Your shares will be counted towards the quorum only  if you submit a valid proxy or vote at the 2011 An nual Meeting. Abstentions and 
broker non-votes will be counted towards the quorum  requirement. If there is not a quorum, a majority of the votes present at the 2011 Annual 
Meeting may adjourn the 2011 Annual Meeting to anot her date.  
How many votes are needed to elect directors (Propo sal 1)?  
We have adopted Bylaw provisions providing for a ma jority vote standard in non-contested elections. As  the number of nominees properly 
nominated for the 2011 Annual Meeting is the same a s the number of directors to be elected, the 2011 A nnual Meeting is a non-contested 
election. Pursuant to our Bylaws, if the number of WITHHOLD votes with respect to a nominee exceeds the number of votes FOR , then the 
nominee is required to submit his resignation for c onsideration by our Board and our Nominating and Co rporate Governance Committee.  
How many votes are needed to amend our Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board (Proposal 2)?  
The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 / 3 % of our outstanding shares of common stock is requ ired for the amendment of our 
Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Boar d. If you ABSTAIN from voting, it will have the same effect as an AGAINST vote. If you do 
not vote, it will have the same effect as an AGAINST vote.  
   
5  
  •   you may submit another properly completed proxy car d with a later date;  
  •   you may send a written notice that you are revoking  your proxy to NVIDIA Corporation, 2701 San Tomas E xpressway, Santa Clara, 
California 95050, Attention: General Counsel/Secret ary;  
  •   you may attend the 2011 Annual Meeting and vote in person; or  
  •   you may submit another proxy by telephone or Intern et after you have already provided an earlier proxy .  
 2 
Table of Contents  
How many votes are needed to approve, on an advisor y basis, the compensation of our named executive of ficers (Proposal 3)?  
The affirmative vote of a majority of shares presen t in person or represented by proxy and entitled to  vote is required for the advisory 
approval of the compensation of our named executive  officers. If you ABSTAIN from voting, it will have the same effect as an AGAINST vote. 
If you do not vote, it will have no effect.  
How many votes are needed to approve, on an advisor y basis, the frequency of holding an advisory vote on the compensation of our 
named executive officers (Proposal 4)?  
The affirmative vote of a majority of shares presen t in person or represented by proxy and entitled to  vote is required for the advisory 
approval of the frequency of holding an advisory vo te on the compensation of our named executive offic ers. If you ABSTAIN from voting, it 
will have the same effect as an AGAINST vote. If you do not vote, it will have no effect.  
How many votes are needed to ratify Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP as our independent registered public ac counting firm (Proposal 5)?  
The affirmative vote of a majority of shares presen t in person or represented by proxy and entitled to  vote is required for the ratification of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent regis tered public accounting firm. If you ABSTAIN from voting, it will have the same effect 
as an AGAINST vote. If you do not vote, it will have no effect.  
How can I find out the results of the voting at the  2011 Annual Meeting?  
Preliminary voting results will be announced at the  2011 Annual Meeting. Final voting results will be published in a current report on 
Form 8-K, which will be filed with the SEC by May 2 4, 2011.  
Who is paying for this proxy solicitation?  
We will pay the entire cost of soliciting proxies. Our directors and employees may also solicit proxie s in person, by telephone, by mail, by 
Internet or by other means of communication. Direct ors and employees will not be paid any additional c ompensation for soliciting proxies. We 
have also retained MacKenzie Partners on an advisor y basis and they may help us solicit proxies from b rokers, bank nominees and other 
institutional owners. We expect to pay MacKenzie Pa rtners a fee of $10,000 for their services. We may also reimburse brokerage firms, banks 
and other agents for the cost of forwarding proxy m aterials to beneficial owners.  
What does it mean if I receive more than one Notice  or full set of proxy materials in the mail?  
If you received more than one Notice or full set of  proxy materials then your shares are either regist ered in more than one name or are held 
in different accounts. Please complete, sign and re turn each Notice or proxy card to ensure that all o f your shares are voted. If you would like to 
modify your instructions so that you receive one No tice or proxy card for each account or name, please  contact your broker.  
What does it mean if multiple members of my househo ld are stockholders but we only received one Notice  or full set of proxy materials 
in the mail?  
The SEC has adopted rules that permit companies and  intermediaries, such as brokers, to satisfy the de livery requirements for Notices and 
proxy materials with respect to two or more stockho lders sharing the same address by delivering a sing le Notice or set of proxy materials 
addressed to those stockholders. In accordance with  a prior notice sent to certain brokers, banks, dea lers or other agents, we are sending only one 
Notice or full set of proxy materials to those addr esses with multiple stockholders unless we received  contrary instructions from any stockholder 
at that address. This practice, known as “householding,” allows us to satisfy the requirements for delivering Notices or proxy materials with 
respect to two or more stockholders sharing the sam e address by delivering a single copy of these docu ments. Householding helps to reduce our 
printing and postage costs, reduces the amount of m ail you receive and helps to preserve the environme nt.  
   
6  
Table of Contents  
If you currently receive multiple copies of the Not ice or proxy materials at your address and would li ke to request “householding” of your 
communications, please contact your broker. Once yo u have elected “householding” of your communications, “householding” will continue until 
you are notified otherwise or until you revoke your  consent. If any stockholder residing at such an ad dress wishes to receive a separate set of 
documents, they may telephone our Stock Administrat ion Department at (408) 486-2000 or write to our St ock Administration Department at 
2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95050.  
When are stockholder proposals due for next year’s annual meeting?  
To be considered for inclusion in next year’s proxy materials, your proposal must be submitted in writ ing by December 10, 2011 to 
NVIDIA Corporation, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Sant a Clara, California 95050, Attention: General Couns el/Secretary and must comply with 
all applicable requirements of Rule 14a-8 promulgat ed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as am ended. However, in the event that we 
do not hold our 2012 Annual Meeting between April 1 8, 2012 and June 17, 2012, then the deadline for yo ur proposal is a reasonable time before 
we begin to print and send our proxy materials. If you wish to submit a proposal that is not to be inc luded in next year’s proxy materials, but that 
may be considered at the 2012 Annual Meeting, you m ust do so in writing following the above instructio ns not later than the close of business on 
December 10, 2011, and not earlier than the close o f business on November 10, 2011. We also advise you  to review our Bylaws, which contain 
additional requirements about advance notice of sto ckholder proposals and director nominations, includ ing the different notice submission date 
requirements in the event that we do not hold our 2 012 Annual Meeting between April 18, 2012 and June 17, 2012.  
Can I view these proxy materials on the NVIDIA webs ite?  
Yes. This proxy statement is posted on our Investor  Relations website at www.nvidia.com . You also can use this website to view our other 
filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report o n Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2 011. The contents of our website are not 
a part of this proxy statement.  
   
7  
Table of Contents  
PROPOSAL 1  
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS  
Our Board is currently divided into three classes s erving staggered three year terms. At the 2011 Annu al Meeting, our stockholders will 
elect two directors to serve until our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders. Messrs. Jones and Miller a re currently directors and were previously 
elected by our stockholders. Our Nominating and Cor porate Governance Committee reviewed the qualificat ions of each of the nominees for 
election and unanimously recommended that each nomi nee be submitted for election to the Board. Our Boa rd approved the recommendation at 
its meeting held on February 24, 2011. If elected a t the 2011 Annual Meeting, each of the nominees wil l serve until the 2014 annual meeting of 
stockholders and until his successor is elected or appointed.  
The Board expects the nominees will be available fo r election. If a nominee declines or is unable to a ct as a director, your proxy may be 
voted for any substitute nominee proposed by the Bo ard or the size of the Board may be reduced. In acc ordance with our Bylaws, directors are 
elected if they receive more FOR votes than WITHHOLD votes.  
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee i s responsible for reviewing, assessing and recommen ding members to the Board 
for approval. The Nominating and Corporate Governan ce Committee has not established specific minimum a ge, education, experience or skill 
requirements for potential members. In general, the  Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee cons iders numerous factors, such as the 
nominee’s: independence; gender; ethnic background; personal and professional judgment and integrity; high-level management experience 
necessary to oversee our business; professional and  industry knowledge; collegiality; financial expert ise; desirability as a member of any 
committees of the Board; willingness and ability to  devote substantial time and effort to Board respon sibilities; experience and the interplay with 
the experience of other Board members; and ability to represent the interests of the stockholders as a  whole rather than special interest groups or 
constituencies. In the case of an incumbent directo r whose term of office is set to expire, the Nomina ting and Corporate Governance Committee 
also reviews this director’s overall service to NVIDIA during their term, including the number of meet ings attended, level of participation and 
quality of performance. The Nominating and Corporat e Governance Committee values diversity as a factor  in selecting nominees to serve on the 
Board and considers the criteria noted above in sel ecting nominees for directors, including members fr om diverse backgrounds who combine a 
broad spectrum of experience and expertise.  
The priorities and emphasis of the Nominating and C orporate Governance Committee and of the Board with  regard to the above factors 
change from time to time to take into account chang es in our business and other trends, as well as the  portfolio of skills and experience of current 
and prospective Board members. The Nominating and C orporate Governance Committee and the Board periodi cally review and assess the 
continued relevance of and emphasis on these factor s to determine if they are effective in helping to satisfy the Board’s goal of creating and 
sustaining a Board that can appropriately support a nd oversee our business.  
Listed below are key skills and experience that the  Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Board consider important for 
our directors to have in light of our current busin ess and structure. The directors’ biographies note each director’s relevant experience, 
qualifications and skills relative to this list as of the date of this proxy statement.  
   
   
   
8  
  •   Senior Management and Operating Experience .    Directors who have served in senior leadership  positions are important to us, as 
they bring insight to constructively review and ass ess our operating plan and business strategy.  
  
•   Industry and Technical Expertise .    Because we are a technology, hardware and soft ware provider, education or experience in 
relevant technology is useful in understanding our research and development efforts, competing technol ogies, the various products and 
processes that we develop and the markets in which we compete.  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
Nominees for Election for a Three-Year Term Expirin g at Our 2014 Annual Meeting  
Harvey C. Jones is the chairman of the board of directors of Tensil ica Inc., a privately-held company he co-founded in  1997. Tensilica 
designs and licenses application-specific microproc essors for use in high-volume embedded systems. Mr.  Jones also serves as a private venture 
capitalist to technology companies. From December 1 987 through February 1998, Mr. Jones held various p ositions at Synopsys, Inc., an 
electronic design automation software company, wher e he served as chief executive officer through Janu ary 1994 and as executive chairman of 
the board of directors until February 1998. Prior t o Synopsys, Mr. Jones served as president and chief  executive officer of Daisy Systems 
Corporation, a computer-aided engineering company t hat he co-founded in 1981. Mr. Jones served on the board of directors of Wind River 
Systems, Inc., an embedded software and services pr ovider, from 2004 to 2009. Mr. Jones holds a B.S. d egree in Mathematics and Computer 
Sciences from Georgetown University and an M.S. deg ree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  
Through his experiences as chairman and chief execu tive officer of a large global technology company a nd as co-founder of two 
technology companies, Mr. Jones brings to the Board  an in-depth knowledge of the technology industry, significant operating experience, 
expertise in corporate strategy development, financ ial expertise, business acumen and insight into cur rent and emerging business trends. 
Mr. Jones also has a deep understanding of our peop le, products, operations and strategic direction, w hich he acquired over 18 years of service as 
a member of our Board. The Board believes that thes e skills and this experience and track record posit ion him to serve NVIDIA well.  
William J. Miller has served as an independent board member for sever al companies and has been an occasional consultant to technology 
companies since October 1999. From April 1996 throu gh October 1999, Mr. Miller was chief executive off icer and chairman of the board of 
directors of Avid Technology, Inc., a provider of d igital tools for multimedia. Mr. Miller also served  as president of Avid Technology from 
September 1996 through October 1999. From March 199 2 to October 1995, Mr. Miller served as chief execu tive officer of Quantum 
Corporation, a mass storage company. He was a membe r of the board of directors of Quantum, and Chairma n thereof, from May 1992 and 
September 1993, respectively, to August 1995. From 1981 to March 1992, he served in various positions at Control Data Corporation, a supplier 
of computer hardware, software and services, most r ecently as executive vice president and president, information services. Mr. Miller serves on 
the board of directors of Waters Corporation, a sci entific instrument manufacturing company, Digimarc Corporation, a developer and supplier of 
secure identification products and digital watermar king technology, and Glu Mobile, Inc., a publisher of mobile games. Mr. Miller served on the 
board of directors of Overland Storage, Inc. from 2 006 to 2009 and Viewsonic Corporation from 2004 to 2008. Mr. Miller holds B.A. and J.D. 
degrees from the University of Minnesota.  
Through his experiences as chief executive officer of two publicly-traded technology companies and as a business consu ltant to technology 
companies, Mr. Miller brings to the Board an in-dep th knowledge of the  
   
9  
  •   Financial Expertise .    Knowledge of accounting and financial reportin g processes is important because it assists our dir ectors in 
understanding, advising and overseeing our financia l reporting and internal controls.  
  
•   Public Company Board Experience .    Directors who have served on boards of directo rs of other public companies have corporate 
governance experience, a deep understanding of the role and responsibilities of the Board and insight into matters being handled by 
our Board.  
  •   Legal Expertise .    Directors who have legal education and experie nce can assist the Board in fulfilling its responsi bilities related to 
the oversight of our legal and regulatory complianc e.  
  •   Understanding of Our People and Products.     Directors who have an understanding of our peop le and products are important to us.  
Table of Contents  
technology industry, significant operating experien ce, expertise in corporate strategy development, fi nancial expertise, business acumen and 
insight into current and emerging business trends. Additionally, Mr. Miller’s service on boards of directors of other public companies and his 
varied experience in legal affairs provides him wit h considerable corporate governance experience, an understanding of the role and 
responsibilities of a public company board of direc tors and insight into matters being handled by our Board. Mr. Miller also has a deep 
understanding of our people, products, operations a nd strategic direction, which he acquired over 17 y ears of service as a member of our Board. 
The Board believes that these skills and this exper ience and track record position him to serve NVIDIA  well.  
T HE B OARD R ECOMMENDS A V OTE IN F AVOR OF THE E LECTION  
T O THE B OARD OF E ACH N AMED N OMINEE .  
   
10  
Table of Contents  
PROPOSAL 2  
AMENDMENT TO NVIDIA’S AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION TO ELIMINATE 
CLASSIFIED BOARD STRUCTURE  
After careful consideration and upon the recommenda tion of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Com mittee, the Board has 
unanimously determined that it would be in the best  interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders to amend our Amended and Restated Certificate 
of Incorporation to declassify the Board and provid e for the annual election of all directors, as desc ribed below. The Board is now asking 
NVIDIA ’s stockholders to approve this amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  
NVIDIA’s Current Classified Board Structure  
Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporati on and Bylaws provide that our Board be divided int o three classes, each class 
consisting, as nearly as possible, of one-third of the total number of directors, with each class havi ng a three-year term. Consequently, at any 
given annual meeting of stockholders, our stockhold ers have the ability to elect only one class of dir ectors, constituting roughly one-third of the 
entire Board.  
Proposed Declassification of the Board  
In February 2011, the Board voted to approve, and t o recommend that our stockholders approve at the 20 11 Annual Meeting, an 
amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate o f Incorporation that upon filing with the Secretary  of State of the State of Delaware will 
eliminate the Board’s classified structure. If our stockholders approve the proposed amendment, direct ors who have been elected to three-year 
terms prior to the filing of the amendment (includi ng directors elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting) wi ll complete those terms. Thereafter, their 
successors will be elected to one-year terms and fr om and after the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014, all directors will stand for 
election annually.  
Rationale for Declassification  
The Board is committed to good corporate governance . Accordingly, in determining whether to propose th e declassification of the Board 
as described above, the Board carefully reviewed th e various arguments for and against a classified Bo ard structure.  
The Board recognizes that a classified structure ma y offer several advantages, such as promoting Board  continuity and stability, 
encouraging directors to take a long-term perspecti ve and reducing a company’s vulnerability to coercive takeover tactics. The Board also 
recognizes, however, that a classified structure ma y appear to reduce directors’ accountability to stockholders, since such a structure does not 
enable stockholders to express a view on each direc tor’s performance by means of an annual vote. The Board also believes that implementing 
annual elections for all directors would support ou r ongoing effort to adopt “best practices” in corporate governance as the Board noted that 
many U.S. public companies have eliminated their cl assified Board structures in recent years.  
In view of the considerations described above, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee, unanimously determined that i t is in the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockh olders to eliminate the classified Board 
structure as proposed. Therefore, the Board has una nimously approved the proposed amendment to our Ame nded and Restated Certificate of 
Incorporation, a copy of which is attached to this Proxy Statement as Appendix A . Our Board has also approved an amendment to our B ylaws 
to eliminate the Board’s classified structure to be effective upon the fil ing of the certificate of amendment with the Secret ary of State of the State 
of Delaware.  
Required Vote  
Under the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incor poration, this proposal must be approved by the aff irmative vote of the holders of at 
least 66 / 
3 % of the voting power of all the outstanding shares  of NVIDIA  
   
11  
 2 
Table of Contents  
entitled to vote at an election of directors. Accor dingly, this proposal will be approved, and the pro posed amendment to the Amended and 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation adopted, upon  the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66  / 3 % of our outstanding shares of common 
stock. Abstentions and broker non-votes will have t he effect of an AGAINST vote on this proposal.  
T HE B OARD R ECOMMENDS A V OTE F OR P ROPOSAL 2.  
   
12  
 2 
Table of Contents  
INFORMATION ABOUT THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE  
The following is information for each of the member s of our Board as of the date of this proxy stateme nt:  
   
The brief biographies below include information, as  of the date of this proxy statement, regarding the  specific and particular experience, 
qualifications, attributes or skills of each direct or that led the Nominating and Corporate Governance  Committee to believe that that director 
should continue to serve on the Board. However, eac h of the members of the Nominating and Corporate Go vernance Committee may have a 
variety of reasons why he believes a particular per son would be an appropriate nominee for the Board, and these views may differ from the 
views of other members.  
Directors Continuing in Office until our 2012 Annua l Meeting  
Tench Coxe is a managing director of the general partner of Su tter Hill Ventures, a venture capital investment fi rm. Prior to joining Sutter 
Hill Ventures in 1987, Mr. Coxe was director of mar keting and MIS at Digital Communications Associates . Mr. Coxe also serves on the board of 
directors of eLoyalty Corporation, a customer loyal ty software firm, and several privately-held compan ies. Mr. Coxe holds a B.A. degree in 
Economics from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. degr ee from Harvard Business School.  
Mr. Coxe has 23 years of experience as an early-sta ge venture capital investor, principally in the tec hnology industry. He has been a 
primary investor in and served on the board of dire ctors of several companies. This experience has pro vided Mr. Coxe with a deep understanding 
of the technology industry and the drivers of struc tural change and high-growth opportunities in techn ology. He has also gained significant 
financial expertise and experience formulating corp orate strategy. Mr. Coxe’s service on boards of directors of other public companies provides 
him with considerable experience about the best pra ctices of effective boards. Mr. Coxe also has a dee p understanding of our people and 
products, which he acquired over 18 years of servic e as a member of our Board. The Board believes that  these skills and this experience and 
track record position him to serve NVIDIA well.  
Mark L. Perry currently serves as the president and chief executi ve officer and a member of the board of directors o f Aerovance Inc., a 
biopharmaceutical company. Prior to joining Aerovan ce in February 2007, Mr. Perry served as the senior  business advisor for Gilead Sciences, 
Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. Mr. Perry was an  executive officer of Gilead from July 1994 to Apri l 2004, serving in a variety of capacities, 
including general counsel, chief financial officer and, most recently, executive vice president of ope rations, responsible for worldwide sales and 
marketing, legal, manufacturing and facilities. Fro m September 1981 to June 1994, Mr. Perry was with t he law firm of Cooley LLP in San 
Francisco and Palo Alto, California, serving as a p artner of the firm from 1987 until 1994. From 2003 to 2009, Mr. Perry served as a member of 
the board of directors of Nuvelo, Inc. Mr. Perry ho lds a B.A. degree in History from the University of  California, Berkeley and a J.D. degree 
from the University of California, Davis.  
   
13  
Name    Position with NVIDIA    Age      Director Since    
Expiration 
 
of Term   
Harvey C. Jones     Director     58       November 1993     2011    
William J. Miller     Lead Director     65       November 1994     2011    
Tench Coxe     Director     53       June 1993     2012    
Mark L. Perry     Director     55       May 2005     2012    
Mark A. Stevens     Director     51       September 2008*     2012    
James C. Gaither     Director     73       December 1998     2013    
Jen-Hsun Huang  
   
Chief Executive Officer, 
President and Director    
  48    
   
April 1993 
  
  2013    
A. Brooke Seawell     Director     63       December 1997     2013    
  
* Mr. Stevens previously served as a member of our Bo ard from June 1993 until June 2006. 
Table of Contents  
Through his experience as chief financial officer o f a large biotechnology company, Mr. Perry brings t o the Board substantial financial 
expertise that includes extensive knowledge of the complex financial and operational issues facing lar ge companies, and a deep understanding of 
accounting principles and financial reporting rules  and regulations. Mr. Perry has also gained signifi cant operating experience, expertise in 
corporate strategy development and business acumen from serving as the chief executive officer and exe cutive vice president of operations at 
different companies. As a result of his experience as a partner in a large law firm and as general cou nsel of a large biopharmaceutical company, 
Mr. Perry brings to the Board varied experience in legal affairs and corporate governance experience a s well as a deep understanding of the role 
and responsibilities of a board of directors. In ad dition, Mr. Perry’s service on boards of directors of other public companies has provided him 
with considerable experience about the best practic es of effective boards. The Board believes that the se skills and this experience and track 
record position him to serve NVIDIA well.  
Mark A. Stevens is a private venture capitalist to technology compa nies. From March 1993 to March 2011, Mr. Stevens wa s a managing 
member of Sequoia Capital, a venture capital invest ment firm. Prior to that time, beginning in July 19 89, he was an associate at Sequoia Capital. 
Prior to joining Sequoia, he held technical sales a nd marketing positions at Intel Corporation, a tech nology company, and was a member of the 
technical staff at Hughes Aircraft Company, an aero space company. Mr. Stevens currently serves on the board of Alpha and Omega 
Semiconductor Limited and the board of a privately- held company. He also serves as a Trustee of the Un iversity of Southern California and is a 
part-time lecturer at the Stanford University Gradu ate School of Business. Mr. Stevens holds a B.S.E.E . degree, a B.A. degree in Economics and 
an M.S. degree in Computer Engineering from the Uni versity of Southern California and an M.B.A. degree  from Harvard Business School.  
Mr. Stevens has 22 years of experience as an early- stage venture capital investor, principally in the technology industry. He has been a 
primary investor in and has served on the board of directors of several companies. This experience has  provided a deep understanding of the 
technology industry, and the drivers of structural change and high-growth opportunities in technology.  He has also gained significant experience 
overseeing corporate strategy and assessing operati ng plans. Mr. Stevens also has a deep understanding  of our people, products, operations and 
strategic direction, which he acquired by serving o n our Board from 1993-2006 and from 2008 to the dat e of the filing of this proxy statement. 
The Board believes that these skills and this exper ience and track record position him to serve NVIDIA  well.  
Directors Continuing in Office until our 2013 Annua l Meeting  
James C. Gaither has been a managing director of Sutter Hill Venture s, a venture capital investment firm, since July 20 00. He is a retired 
partner of the law firm of Cooley LLP and was a par tner of the firm from 1971 until July 2000 and seni or counsel to the firm from July 2000 to 
2003. Prior to beginning his law practice with the firm in 1969, Mr. Gaither served as a law clerk to The Honorable Earl Warren, Chief Justice of 
the United States Supreme Court, special assistant to the Assistant Attorney General in the United Sta tes Department of Justice and staff 
assistant to the President of the United States, Ly ndon Johnson. Mr. Gaither is a former president of the Board of Trustees at Stanford 
University, former vice chairman of the board of di rectors of The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation  and immediate past chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of The Carnegie Endowment for Int ernational Peace. Mr. Gaither holds a B.A. in Econo mics from Princeton University and a 
J.D. degree from Stanford University Law School.  
Mr. Gaither’s broad experience ranges from venture capital investments in early-stage technology compa nies to extensive and varied 
experience in legal affairs. Through his role as a venture capitalist, Mr. Gaither brings to the Board  business acumen and expertise in corporate 
strategy development. As a result of his experience  as a partner in a large law firm, Mr. Gaither brin gs to the Board varied experience in legal 
affairs and corporate governance experience as well  as an understanding of the role and responsibiliti es of a board of directors. Mr. Gaither also 
has a deep understanding of our people, products, o perations and strategic direction which he acquired  over 13 years of service as a member of 
our Board. The Board believes that these skills and  this experience and track record position him to s erve NVIDIA well.  
   
14  
Table of Contents  
Jen-Hsun Huang co-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served sinc e that time as our president and chief executive of ficer. From 
1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic C orporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most 
recently as director of coreware, the business unit  responsible for LSI’s “system-on-a-chip” strategy. From 1984 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a 
microprocessor designer for Advanced Micro Devices,  Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a B .S.E.E. degree from Oregon State 
University and an M.S.E.E. degree from Stanford Uni versity.  
Mr. Huang is one of the semiconductor industry’s most respected executives, having led NVIDIA from a s tart-up to the world’s leader in 
visual and parallel computing. Under his guidance, we have shown consistent innovation and sharp execu tion, marked by products that have 
gained strong market share, even as many competitor s have left the marketplace. Mr. Huang has a deep u nderstanding of our products, people, 
operations and strategic direction which he acquire d over the 18 year period since co-founding NVIDIA in 1993. The Board believes that these 
leadership skills and this successful track record position him to serve NVIDIA well.  
A. Brooke Seawell has been a venture partner with New Enterprise Asso ciates, a venture capital investment firm, since Ja nuary 2005. 
From February 2000 to December 2004, Mr. Seawell wa s a partner with Technology Crossover Ventures, a v enture capital investment firm. 
From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Seawell was executive vice p resident of NetDynamics, Inc., an application serve r software company, which was 
acquired by Sun Microsystems, Inc. From 1991 to 199 7, Mr. Seawell was senior vice president and chief financial officer of Synopsys, Inc., an 
electronic design automation software company. Mr. Seawell serves on the board of directors of Informa tica Corporation, a data integration 
software company, Glu Mobile, Inc., a publisher of mobile games, and several privately-held companies.  Mr. Seawell also serves on the 
Management Board of the Stanford Graduate School of  Business. Mr. Seawell holds a B.A. degree in Econo mics and an M.B.A. degree in 
Finance from Stanford University.  
Mr. Seawell brings to the Board substantial financi al expertise that includes extensive knowledge of t he complex financial and operational 
issues facing large companies, and a deep understan ding of accounting principles and financial reporti ng rules and regulations. He acquired this 
knowledge in the course of serving as the chief fin ancial officer of a global technology company, work ing as a venture capitalist and serving as 
the chairman of the audit committees of boards of d irectors of two other public companies. Mr. Seawell  also has a deep understanding of our 
people, products, operations and strategic directio n, which he acquired over 14 years of service as a member of our Board. The Board believes 
that these skills and this experience and track rec ord position him to serve NVIDIA well.  
Independence of the Members of the Board of Directo rs  
Our corporate governance policies, as supplemented to date, or the Corporate Governance Policies, requ ire our Board to affirmatively 
determine that at least 75% of our directors do not  have a relationship that would interfere with thei r exercise of independent judgment in 
carrying out their responsibilities and meet any ot her qualification requirements required by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or 
NASDAQ. This 75% threshold is higher than the major ity threshold required by NASDAQ ’s rules and regulations. In addition, to be deemed 
“independent” in any calendar year, directors of NVIDIA must comply with NASDAQ Rules regarding the in dependence of directors with the 
following heightened standards: (i) with respect to  NASDAQ Rule 5605(a)(2)(B), the dollar threshold is  lowered from $120,000 to $100,000; 
and (ii) with respect to NASDAQ Rule 5605(a)(2)(D),  the percentage and dollar threshold is reduced to either 2% of the recipients’ consolidated 
gross revenues for that year, or $60,000, whichever  is greater.  
After considering all relevant relationships and tr ansactions, the Board determined all members of the  Board are “independent” as defined 
by NASDAQ’s rules and regulations, except for Jen-Hsun Huang, our president and chief executive offic er. Thus, as of the date of the mailing of 
this proxy statement, 87.5% of the members of our B oard are independent. The Board also determined tha t all members of our Audit, 
Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governanc e Committees are independent under applicable NASDA Q listing standards.  
   
15  
Table of Contents  
Board Leadership Structure  
Our Bylaws and Corporate Governance Policies permit  the roles of chairman of the board and chief execu tive officer to be filled by the 
same or different individuals. This allows the Boar d flexibility to determine whether the two roles sh ould be combined or separated based upon 
our needs and the Board’s assessment of its leadership from time to time. T he Board believes that our stockholders are best se rved at this time by 
not having a chairman of the board and by having a lead independent director, or Lead Director.  
In the absence of a chairman of the board, our Corp orate Governance Policies provide that our chief ex ecutive officer has primary 
responsibility for preparing the agendas for Board meetings. Our chief executive officer also presides  over the portion of the meetings of the 
Board where he is present.  
Given that we do not have a chairman of the board, the Board believes that a Lead Director is an integ ral part of our Board structure and a 
critical aspect of effective corporate governance. The independent directors consider the role and des ignation of the Lead Director on an annual 
basis. Mr. Miller has been our Lead Director since May 2009. Mr. Miller brings considerable skills and  experience, as described in Proposal 1—
Election of Directors , to the role. In addition, Mr. Miller is Chair of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which affords him 
increased engagement with Board governance and comp osition. Our Lead Director has significant responsi bilities, which are set forth in our 
Corporate Governance Policies, and include, in part :  
   
   
   
   
As discussed above, a substantial portion of our Bo ard is comprised of independent directors. The acti ve involvement of the independent 
directors, combined with the qualifications and sig nificant responsibilities of our Lead Director, pro vide balance on the Board and promote 
strong, independent oversight of our management and  affairs.  
Role of the Board in Risk Oversight  
One of the Board’s key functions is informed oversight of our risk management process. The Board does not have a standing risk 
management committee, but rather administers this o versight function directly through the Board as a w hole, as well as through various Board 
standing committees that address risks inherent in their respective areas of oversight. In particular,  our Board is responsible for monitoring and 
assessing strategic risk exposure and our Audit Com mittee has the responsibility to consider and discu ss our major financial risk exposures and 
the steps our management has taken to monitor and c ontrol these exposures. The Audit Committee also mo nitors compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements and oversees the performanc e of our internal audit function. Our Nominating an d Corporate Governance Committee 
monitors the effectiveness of our anonymous tip pro cess and corporate governance guidelines, including  whether they are successful in 
preventing illegal or improper liability-creating c onduct. Our Compensation Committee assesses and mon itors whether any of our compensation 
policies and programs has the potential to encourag e excessive risk-taking.  
   
16  
  •   determining an appropriate schedule of Board meetin gs, seeking to ensure that the independent members of the Board can perform 
their duties responsibly while not interfering with  the flow of our operations;  
  •   working independently or with our chief executive o fficer, seeking input from all directors, as well a s the chief executive officer and 
other relevant management, as to the preparation of  the agendas for Board and committee meetings;  
  
•   advising the Board on a regular basis as to the qua lity, quantity and timeliness of the flow of inform ation requested by the Board from 
our management with the goal of providing what is n ecessary for the independent members of the Board t o effectively and responsibly 
perform their duties, and, although our management is responsible for the preparation of materials for  the Board, the Lead Director 
may specifically request the inclusion of certain m aterial; and  
  •   coordinating, developing the agenda for, and modera ting executive sessions of the independent members of the Board, and acting as 
principal liaison between the independent members o f the Board and the chief executive officer on sens itive issues.  
Table of Contents  
The full Board (or the appropriate committee in the  case of risks that are under the purview of a part icular committee) receives reports on 
risk facing NVIDIA from our chief executive officer  or the appropriate “risk owner” within NVIDIA to enable it to understand our risk 
identification, risk management and risk mitigation  strategies. When a committee receives the report, the chairman of the relevant committee 
reports on the discussion to the full Board during the committee reports portion of the next Board mee ting. However, it is the responsibility of 
the committee chairs to report findings regarding m aterial risk exposures to the Board as quickly as p ossible.  
Audit Committee Financial Experts  
The Board has determined that each of Messrs. Seawe ll and Perry satisfy the criteria adopted by the SE C to serve as an “audit committee 
financial expert” within the meaning of the SEC rules.  
Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Direc tors  
The Board has documented our governance practices b y adopting Corporate Governance Policies to ensure that the Board will have the 
necessary authority and practices in place to revie w and evaluate our business operations as needed an d to make decisions that are independent 
of our management. The Corporate Governance Policie s set forth the practices the Board follows with re spect to board composition and 
selection, regular evaluations of the Board and its  committees, board meetings and involvement of seni or management, chief executive officer 
performance evaluation, and board committees and co mpensation. Our Corporate Governance Policies may b e viewed under Corporate 
Governance in the Investor Relations section of our  website at www.nvidia.com .  
Executive Sessions of the Board  
As required under NASDAQ’s listing standards, our independent directors have in the past and will cont inue to meet regularly in 
scheduled executive sessions at which only independ ent directors are present. In fiscal year 2011, our  independent directors met in executive 
session at three of the four regularly scheduled Bo ard meetings.  
In addition, independent directors have in the past  and will continue to meet regularly in scheduled e xecutive session with our chief 
executive officer. In fiscal year 2011, our indepen dent directors met in executive session with our ch ief executive officer at three of the four 
regularly scheduled Board meetings.  
Director Attendance at Annual Meeting  
We do not have a formal policy regarding attendance  by members of the Board at our annual meetings. We  generally schedule a Board 
meeting in conjunction with our annual meetings and  expect that all of our directors will attend each annual meeting, absent a valid reason. Six 
of our eight Board members attended our 2010 Annual  Meeting.  
Board Self-Assessments  
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee o versees an annual evaluation process, whereby each director evaluates the Board 
as a whole and each member of the standing committe es of the Board evaluates the committees on which t hey serve. After these evaluations are 
complete, the results are discussed by the Board an d each committee and with each individual director,  as applicable, and, if necessary, action 
plans are developed.  
Director Education  
The Board believes that director education is integ ral to Board and committee performance and effectiv eness. Directors are expected to 
participate in continuing educational programs in o rder to maintain the  
   
17  
Table of Contents  
necessary level of expertise to perform their respo nsibilities as directors. In fiscal year 2010, we e ngaged the Stanford Directors’ College, which 
is affiliated with the Stanford University Law Scho ol, to create an individualized continuing educatio n program for our Board members. Each of 
directors completed this eight hour continuing educ ation program in fiscal year 2010, except Mr. Seawe ll who attended six of the eight hours. 
However, Mr. Seawell had previously attended the St anford Directors’ College in 2008.  
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines  
The Board believes that directors should hold a sig nificant equity interest in NVIDIA. Our Corporate G overnance Policies require each 
director to hold at least 25,000 shares of our comm on stock during the period in which they serve as a  director, unless our Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee waives the requireme nt. The 25,000 shares may include vested but unexer cised stock options. Directors will 
have 18 months from the date that they become direc tors to reach the ownership threshold. Each of our directors currently meets or exceeds the 
stock ownership requirement. The stock ownership gu idelines are intended to further align director int erests with stockholder interests.  
Outside Advisors  
The Board and each of its principal committees may retain outside advisors and consultants of their ch oosing at our expense. The Board 
need not obtain management’s consent to retain outside advisors. In addition, the principal committees  need not obtain either the Board’s or 
management’s consent to retain outside advisors.  
Code of Conduct  
We have a Worldwide Code of Conduct that applies to  all of our executive officers, directors and emplo yees, including our principal 
executive officer and principal financial and accou nting officer. We also have a Financial Team Code o f Conduct that applies to our executive 
officers, directors and members of our finance, acc ounting and treasury departments. Both the Worldwid e Code of Conduct and the Financial 
Team Code of Conduct are available under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of our  website at www.nvidia.com 
. If we 
make any amendments to the Worldwide Code of Conduc t or the Financial Team Code of Conduct or grant an y waiver from a provision of 
either code to any executive officer or director, w e will promptly disclose the nature of the amendmen t or waiver on our website.  
Conflicts of Interest  
We expect our directors, executives and employees t o conduct themselves with the highest degree of int egrity, ethics and honesty. Our 
credibility and reputation depend upon the good jud gment, ethical standards and personal integrity of each director, executive and employee. In 
order to better protect us and our stockholders, we  regularly review our Code of Conduct and related p olicies to ensure that they provide clear 
guidance to our directors, executives and employees .  
Corporate Hotline  
We have established a corporate hotline (operated b y a third party) to allow any employee to confident ially and anonymously lodge a 
complaint about any accounting, internal control, a uditing or other matters of concern (unless prohibi ted by local privacy laws for employees 
located in the European Union).  
Stockholder Communications with the Board of Direct ors  
Stockholders who wish to communicate with the Board  regarding nominations of directors or other matter s may do so by sending written 
communications addressed to David M. Shannon, our s ecretary, at NVIDIA Corporation, 2701 San Tomas Exp ressway, Santa Clara, California 
95050. All stockholder communications we  
   
18  
Table of Contents  
receive that are addressed to the Board will be com piled by our secretary. If no particular director i s named, letters will be forwarded, depending 
on the subject matter, to the Chair of the Audit, C ompensation or Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.  
Nomination of Directors  
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee i dentifies, reviews and evaluates candidates to serv e as directors and recommends 
candidates for election to the Board. The Nominatin g and Corporate Governance Committee uses its netwo rk of contacts to compile a list of 
potential candidates, but may also engage a profess ional search firm. The Nominating and Corporate Gov ernance Committee conducts any 
appropriate and necessary inquiries into the backgr ounds and qualifications of possible candidates aft er considering the function and needs of the 
Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Comm ittee meets to discuss and consider the candidates’ qualifications and then selects a 
nominee for recommendation to the Board. For an exp lanation of the factors the Nominating and Corporat e Governance Committee considers 
when evaluating candidates and the Board as a whole , please see Proposal 1—Election of Directors above.  
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee e valuates candidates proposed by stockholders using the same criteria as it uses for 
other candidates. Matters put forth by our stockhol ders will be reviewed by the Nominating and Corpora te Governance Committee, which will 
determine whether these matters should be presented  to the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governa nce Committee will give serious 
consideration to all such matters and will make its  determination in accordance with its charter and a pplicable laws. Stockholders seeking to 
recommend a prospective nominee should follow the i nstructions under the heading Stockholder Communications with the Board of Direct ors . 
Stockholder submissions must include the full name of the proposed nominee, a description of the propo sed nominee’s business experience for at 
least the previous five years, complete biographica l information, a description of the proposed nomine e’s qualifications as a director and a 
representation that the nominating stockholder is a  beneficial or record owner of our stock. Any such submission must be accompanied by the 
written consent of the proposed nominee to be named  as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected . Stockholders are advised to review our 
Bylaws, which contain the requirements for director  nominations. The Nominating and Corporate Governan ce Committee did not receive any 
stockholder nominations during fiscal year 2011.  
Majority Vote Standard  
As a part of our continuing process of enhancing ou r corporate governance procedures and to provide ou r stockholders with a more 
meaningful role in the outcome of the election of d irectors, in March 2006, our Board amended our Byla ws to adopt a majority vote standard for 
non-contested director elections. Our Bylaws now pr ovide that in a non-contested election if the votes  cast FOR an incumbent director do not 
exceed the number of WITHHOLD votes, such incumbent director shall promptly tende r his resignation to the Board. The Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee will review the circ umstances surrounding the WITHHOLD vote and promptly make a recommendation to 
the Board on whether to accept or reject the resign ation or whether other action should be taken. In m aking its decision, the Board will evaluate 
the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders a nd will consider all factors and relevant informati on. The Board will act on the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee’s recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationa le behind it within 90 days from the 
date of certification of the stockholder vote. The director who tenders his resignation will not parti cipate in the Board’s or the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee’s decisions. In a contested election, which is an election in which the  number of nominees exceeds the 
number of directors to be elected, our directors wi ll be elected by a plurality of the shares represen ted in person or by proxy at any such meeting 
and entitled to vote on the election of directors a t that meeting.  
Board Meeting Information  
The Board met four times during fiscal year 2011 an d acted by written consent one time. In addition, d uring fiscal year 2011, the Board 
attended our Strategic Alignment Meeting, during wh ich they discussed the strategic  
   
19  
Table of Contents  
direction of NVIDIA, explored and discussed new bus iness opportunities and the product roadmap, and ad dressed possible challenges facing 
NVIDIA. We expect each Board member to attend each meeting of the Board and the committees on which he  serves. In fiscal year 2011, each 
Board member attended 75% or more of the meetings o f the Board and of each committee on which he serve d.  
Committees of the Board of Directors  
The Board has three standing committees: an Audit C ommittee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating  and Corporate Governance 
Committee. Each of these committees operates under a written charter, which may be viewed under Corpor ate Governance in the Investor 
Relations section of our website at www.nvidia.com .  
In fiscal year 2006, the Board concluded that havin g our directors rotate and serve on different commi ttees provides a benefit to us and our 
stockholders. By rotating among committees, we beli eve all members are more fully informed regarding t he full scope of Board and our 
activities. The Board believes that such rotations are a good corporate governance practice and intend s to make periodic rotations in the future.  
   
   
20  
Committees and  
Current Membership    Number of Meetings Held During Fiscal Year 2011 and  Committee Functions  
Audit    Meetings: 9  
Fiscal Year 2011  
Mark L. Perry*  
A. Brooke Seawell  
Tench Coxe  
James C. Gaither  
   
Written Consents: 0  
   
•    oversees our corporate accounting and financial reporting process;  
   
•    oversees our internal audit function;  
   
•    evaluates the performance of and assesses the qualifications of our independent registered public  
accounting firm;  
   
•    determines and approves the engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm;  
   
•    determines whether to retain or terminate the exist ing independent registered public accounting firm o r to 
appoint and engage a new independent registered pub lic accounting firm;  
   
•    reviews and approves the retention of the independent registered public accounting firm to perfor m any 
proposed permissible non-audit services;  
   
•    confers with management and our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial re porting;  
   
•    discusses with management and the independent registered public accounting firm the results of th e 
annual audit and the results of our quarterly finan cial statements;  
   
•    reviews the financial statements to be included in our annual report;  
   
•    reviews earnings press releases, as well as the substance of financial information and earnings g uidance 
provided to analysts and rating agencies on our qua rterly earnings calls;  
   
•    prepares the report required to be included by the SEC rules in our annual proxy statement or Ann ual 
Report on Form 10-K; and  
   
•    establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regardin g 
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditin g matters and the confidential and anonymous 
submission by employees of concerns regarding quest ionable accounting or auditing matters.  
Table of Contents  
   
21  
Committees and  
Current Membership    Number of Meetings Held During Fiscal Year 2011 and  Committee Functions  
Compensation    Meetings: 8  
Fiscal Year 2011  
Mark A. Stevens*  
William J. Miller  
Harvey C. Jones  
   
Written Consent: 2  
   
•    reviews and approves our overall compensation strategy and policies;  
   
•    reviews and recommends to the Board the compensation of our Board members;  
   
•    reviews and approves the compensation and other ter ms of employment of our chief executive officer and  
other executive officers;  
   
•    reviews and approves corporate performance goals and objectives relevant to the compensation of o ur 
executive officers and other senior management;  
   
•    reviews and approves written performance goals for our chief executive officer relevant to the 
compensation of our chief executive officer;  
   
•    reviews and approves the disclosure contained in Compensation Discussion and Analysis and conside rs 
whether to recommend that it be included in the pro xy statement and Annual Report on Form 10-K;  
   
•    administers our stock option and purchase plans, variable compensation plans and other similar 
programs;  
   
•    assesses and monitors whether any of our compensation policies and programs has the potential to 
encourage excessive risk-taking; and  
   
•    may form and delegate authority to subcommittees as appropriate, including, but not limited to, a  
subcommittee composed of one of more members of the  Board.  
Nominating and 
Corporate Governance    
Meetings: 4  
Written Consents: 1  
Fiscal Year 2011  
William J. Miller*  
James C. Gaither  
Harvey C. Jones  
Mark A. Stevens  
   
•    identifies, reviews and evaluates candidates to ser ve as directors;  
   
•    recommends candidates for election to our Board;  
   
•    makes recommendations to the Board regarding committee membership;  
   
•    assesses the performance of the Board and its committees;  
   
•    reviews and assesses our corporate governance principles and practices;  
   
•    approves related party transactions; and  
   
•    establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints we receive regardin g 
violations of our code of conduct.  
  
* Committee Chairperson 
Table of Contents  
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTI CIPATION  
For fiscal year 2011, the Compensation Committee co nsisted of Messrs. Jones, Miller and Stevens. No me mber of the Compensation 
Committee is an officer or employee of NVIDIA, and none of our executive officers serve as a director or member of a compensation committee 
of any entity that has one or more executive office rs serving as a member of our Board or Compensation  Committee. Each of our current 
directors has purchased and holds shares of our com mon stock.  
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION  
Our non-employee directors receive options to purch ase shares of our common stock for their services a s members of our Board. Non-
employee directors do not receive cash compensation  for their services as members of our Board, but ma y be reimbursed for expenses incurred 
in attending Board and committee meetings and conti nuing educational programs as set forth in our Corp orate Governance Policies. Directors 
who are also employees do not receive any fees or e quity compensation for service on the Board. Mr. Hu ang is our only employee director.  
Historically, options to purchase shares of our com mon stock have been automatically granted to our no n-employee directors under our 
1998 Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan as incorporated into our 1998 Equity Incentive Plan, wh ich we refer to as the 1998 Plan. 
Beginning in June 2007, we started granting annual stock option grants on the first trading day after an annual meeting to our non-employee 
directors from our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, whic h we refer to as the 2007 Plan. We do not offer cha nge-in-control benefits to our directors, 
except for the change-in-control vesting accelerati on provisions in our equity plans that are applicab le to all holders of stock awards under such 
plans in the event that an acquiring company does n ot assume or substitute for such outstanding stock awards.  
In March 2010, the Compensation Committee undertook  its annual review of the type and form of compensa tion paid to our non-employee 
directors in connection with their service on our B oard and its committees. The Compensation Committee  consulted with our human resources 
department and Exequity LLP, or Exequity, and revie wed peer company data. Based on this review, the Co mpensation Committee 
recommended, and the Board approved, the continuati on of our policy of aligning directors and stockhol ders’ interests by providing only equity 
compensation in the form of stock options and to ta rget the compensation of non-employee directors at approximately the 75 percentile of the 
peer companies. The Compensation Committee employed  the binomial option pricing model to determine gra nt recommendations whose fair 
value (as determined in accordance with Financial A ccounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codi fication Topic 718, or FASB ASC 
Topic 718) approximately aligned with the 75 percen tile of our select peer companies’ total annual compensation, both cash and equity, for 
non-employee directors.  
As a result of the review above, a single stock opt ion for 40,000 shares was granted to each non-emplo yee director on the first trading day 
following the date of our 2010 Annual Meeting. In o rder to correlate the vesting of the annual stock o ption to the non-employee directors’ 
service on the Board and its committees over the fo llowing year, the option vests quarterly over the y ear following the 2010 Annual Meeting. 
The options have a term of six years. If a non-empl oyee director’s service as a director terminates due to death, the grant will immediately fully 
vest and become exercisable.  
   
22  
th 
th 
Table of Contents  
The following table provides information regarding compensation of non-employee directors who served d uring fiscal year 2011:  
Director Compensation for Fiscal Year 2011  
   
   
   
23  
Name    
Option  
Awards($) 
(1)(2)      
Total  
($)   
Tench Coxe       271,600         271,600    
James C. Gaither       271,600         271,600    
Harvey C. Jones       271,600         271,600    
William J. Miller       271,600         271,600    
Mark L. Perry       271,600         271,600    
A. Brooke Seawell       271,600         271,600    
Mark A. Stevens       271,600         271,600    
  
(1) Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dol lar amounts actually received by the non-employee d irector. Instead, these amounts reflect 
the aggregate full grant date fair value calculated  in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 for awards g ranted during fiscal year 2011. On 
May 20, 2010, each non-employee director received a  stock option to purchase 40,000 shares as compensa tion for his service on the Board 
and committees with an exercise price of $12.46 per  share, which was the closing price of our common s tock as reported by NASDAQ on 
May 20, 2010. The full grant date fair value for th ese awards as determined under FASB ASC Topic 718 w as $6.79. The assumptions used 
in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under Note 3 to our consolidated financial st atements entitled “Stock-Based 
Compensation ” in our Annual Report on Form 10 -K for fiscal year 2011, filed with the SEC on March  16, 2011. 
(2) As of January 30, 2011, each non-employee direc tor held stock options to purchase the following ag gregate number of shares of our 
common stock: Mr. Coxe, options to purchase 626,000  shares; Mr. Gaither, options to purchase 551,000 s hares; Mr. Jones, options to 
purchase 423,807 shares; Mr. Miller, options to pur chase 866,000 shares; Mr. Perry, options to purchas e 411,000 shares; Mr. Seawell, 
options to purchase 537,500 shares; and Mr. Stevens , options to purchase 208,000 shares. 
Table of Contents  
PROPOSAL 3  
ADVISORY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consume r Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, and Sectio n 14A of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, our stockholders are now entitled to vote to approve, on an advisory  basis, the compensation of our named 
executive officers as disclosed in this proxy state ment in accordance with SEC rules. This vote is not  intended to address any specific item of 
compensation, but rather the overall compensation o f our named executive officers and the philosophy, policies and practices described in this 
proxy statement.  
The compensation of our named executive officers su bject to the vote is disclosed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the 
compensation tables and the related narrative discl osure contained in this proxy statement. As discuss ed in those disclosures, we believe that our 
compensation policies and decisions are focused on pay-for-performance principles and strongly aligned  with our stockholders’ interests. 
Compensation of our named executive officers is des igned to enable us to attract and retain talented a nd experienced executives to lead NVIDIA 
successfully in a competitive environment.  
Accordingly, the Board is asking the stockholders t o indicate their support for the compensation of ou r named executive officers as 
described in this proxy statement by casting a non- binding advisory vote FOR the following resolution:  
“ R ESOLVED , that the compensation paid to the Company’s named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402 of 
Regulation S-K, including the Compensation Discussi on and Analysis, compensation tables and narrative discussion is hereby 
APPROVED .”  
Because the vote is advisory, it is not binding on the Board or us. Nevertheless, the views expressed by the stockholders, whether through 
this vote or otherwise, are important to management  and the Board and, accordingly, the Board and the Compensation Committee intend to 
consider the results of this vote in making determi nations in the future regarding executive compensat ion arrangements.  
Advisory approval of this proposal requires the vot e of the holders of a majority of the shares presen t in person or represented by proxy 
and entitled to vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting.  
T HE B OARD R ECOMMENDS A V OTE F OR P ROPOSAL 3.  
   
24  
Table of Contents  
PROPOSAL 4  
ADVISORY VOTE ON THE FREQUENCY OF HOLDING AN  
ADVISORY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
The Dodd-Frank Act and Section 14A of the Securitie s Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, also enable our  stockholders to indicate their 
preference regarding how frequently we should solic it a non-binding advisory vote on the compensation of our named executive officers as 
disclosed in our proxy statements. Accordingly, we are asking stockholders to indicate whether they wo uld prefer an advisory vote every one, 
two or three years. Alternatively, stockholders may  abstain from casting a vote.  
After considering the benefits and consequences of each alternative, the Board recommends that the adv isory vote on the compensation of 
our named executive officers be submitted to the st ockholders every one year. In formulating its recom mendation, the Board considered that an 
annual advisory vote on executive compensation will  allow stockholders to provide direct input on the Company’s compensation philosophy, 
policies and practices every year.  
Accordingly, the Board is asking stockholders to in dicate their preferred voting frequency by voting f or one, two or three years or 
abstaining from voting on the resolution below:  
“ R ESOLVED , that the alternative of soliciting advisory stock holder approval of the compensation of the Company’s executive 
officers once every one, two or three years that re ceives the highest number of votes cast for this re solution will be determined to be the 
preferred frequency with which the Company is to ho ld a stockholder vote to approve the compensation o f the named executive officers.”  
The Board and the Compensation Committee value the opinions of the stockholders in this matter, and th e Board intends to hold say-on-
pay votes in the future in accordance with the alte rnative that receives the most stockholder support,  even if that alternative does not receive the 
support of a majority of the shares present and ent itled to vote either in person or represented by pr oxy and entitled to vote at the 2011 Annual 
Meeting.  
T HE B OARD R ECOMMENDS  
A V OTE IN F AVOR OF “1 Y EAR ” ON P ROPOSAL 4.  
   
25  
Table of Contents  
PROPOSAL 5  
RATIFICATION OF SELECTION OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED  PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FOR FISCAL YEAR 2012  
The Audit Committee has selected PricewaterhouseCoo pers LLP, or PwC, to serve as our independent regis tered public accounting firm 
for our fiscal year ending January 29, 2012. Stockh older ratification of the Audit Committee’s selection of PwC is not required by our Bylaws or  
any other governing documents or laws. As a matter of good corporate governance, we are submitting the  selection of PwC to our stockholders 
for ratification. If our stockholders do not ratify  the selection, the Audit Committee will reconsider  whether or not to retain PwC. Even if the 
selection is ratified, the Audit Committee in its s ole discretion may direct the appointment of a diff erent independent registered public 
accounting firm at any time during the fiscal year if it determines that such a change would be in our  best interests and those of our stockholders. 
The affirmative vote of the holders of a majority o f the shares present in person or represented by pr oxy and entitled to vote at the 2011 
Annual Meeting will be required to ratify the selec tion of PwC. Abstentions will be counted toward the  tabulation of votes cast and will have the 
same effect as votes against the proposal. Broker n on-votes are counted toward a quorum, but are not c ounted for any purpose in determining 
whether this proposal has been approved.  
We expect that a representative of PwC will attend the 2011 Annual Meeting. The PwC representative wil l have an opportunity to make a 
statement at the 2011 Annual Meeting if he or she s o desires. The representative will also be availabl e to respond to appropriate stockholder 
questions.  
T HE B OARD R ECOMMENDS A V OTE F OR P ROPOSAL 5.  
   
26  
Table of Contents  
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND INDEPENDENT AUDITOR INFORMATION   
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIREC TORS  
The material in this report is not “soliciting mate rial,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is no t to be incorporated by reference in 
any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933 , as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 193 4, as amended, whether made before or 
after the date hereof and irrespective of any gener al incorporation language in any such filing, excep t to the extent specifically incorporated by 
reference therein.  
The Audit Committee oversees accounting, financial reporting, internal control over financial reportin g, financial practices and audit 
activities of NVIDIA and its subsidiaries. The Audi t Committee reviews the results and scope of the au dit and other services provided by the 
independent registered public accounting firm and r eviews financial statements and the accounting poli cies followed by NVIDIA prior to the 
issuance of the financial statements with both mana gement and the independent registered public accoun ting firm.  
Management is responsible for the financial reporti ng process, the preparation of consolidated financi al statements in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the Uni ted States, or GAAP, the system of internal control  over financial reporting, and the 
procedures designed to facilitate compliance with a ccounting standards and applicable laws and regulat ions. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or 
PwC, our independent registered public accounting f irm for fiscal year 2011, was responsible for perfo rming an independent audit of the 
consolidated financial statements and issuing a rep ort on the consolidated financial statements and of  the effectiveness of our internal control 
over financial reporting as of January 30, 2011. Pw C’s judgments as to the quality, not just the acceptability, of our accounting principles and 
such other matters are required to be disclosed to the Audit Committee under applicable standards. The  Audit Committee oversees these 
processes. Also, the Audit Committee has ultimate a uthority and responsibility to select, evaluate and , when appropriate, terminate the 
independent registered public accounting firm. The Audit Committee approves audit fees and non- audit services provided by and fees paid to the 
independent registered public accounting firm.  
NVIDIA has an internal audit function that reports to the Audit Committee. This function is responsibl e for objectively reviewing and 
evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of our system of internal controls and the operatin g effectiveness of our business processes. 
The Audit Committee approves an annual internal aud it plan and monitors the activities and performance  of our internal audit function 
throughout the year to ensure the plan objectives a re carried out and met.  
The Audit Committee members are not professional ac countants or auditors, and their functions are not intended to duplicate or to certify 
the activities of management or the independent reg istered public accounting firm. The Audit Committee  does not plan or conduct audits, 
determine that our financial statements are complet e and accurate and in accordance with GAAP or asses s our internal control over financial 
reporting. The Audit Committee relies, without addi tional independent verification, on the information  provided by our management and on the 
representations made by management that the financi al statements have been prepared with integrity and  objectivity, and the opinion of PwC that 
such financial statements have been prepared in con formity with GAAP.  
In this context, the Audit Committee reviewed and d iscussed the audited consolidated financial stateme nts for fiscal year 2011 with 
management and our internal control over financial reporting with management and PwC. Specifically, th e Audit Committee discussed with 
PwC the matters required to be discussed by Stateme nt on Auditing Standards No. 61, as amended. We hav e received from PwC the written 
disclosures and letter required by the applicable r equirements of the Public Company Accounting Oversi ght Board regarding PwC’s 
communications with the Audit Committee concerning independence. The Audit Committee also considered w hether the provision of certain 
permitted non-audit services by PwC is compatible w ith PwC’s independence and discussed PwC’s independence with PwC.  
   
27  
Table of Contents  
Based on the Audit Committee’s review and discussions, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board of  Directors that the audited 
consolidated financial statements be included in th e Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the fisc al year ended January 30, 2011.  
   
   
28  
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
Mark L. Perry, Chairman  
A. Brooke Seawell  
Tench Coxe  
James Gaither  
Table of Contents  
FEES BILLED BY THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC AC COUNTING FIRM  
The following is a summary of fees billed by PwC fo r fiscal year 2011 and 2010 for audit, tax and othe r professional services during the 
fiscal year:  
   
   
   
   
All of the services provided for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 described above were pre-approved by the Audit Committee or the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee through the authority granted t o him by the Audit Committee, which is described be low.  
Our Audit Committee determined that the rendering o f services other than audit services by PwC was com patible with maintaining PwC’s 
independence.  
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures  
The Audit Committee has adopted policies and proced ures for the pre-approval of all audit and permissi ble non-audit services rendered by 
our independent registered public accounting firm. The policy generally permits pre-approvals of speci fied permissible services in the defined 
categories of audit services, audit-related service s and tax services up to specified amounts. Pre-app roval may also be given as part of the Audit 
Committee’s approval of the scope of the engagement of our independent registered public accounting fi rm or on an individual case-by-case 
basis before the independent registered public acco unting firm is engaged to provide each service. In some cases the full Audit Committee 
provides pre-approval for up to a year related to a  particular defined task or scope. In other cases, the Audit Committee has delegated power to 
Mark L. Perry, the Chairman of our Audit Committee,  to pre-approve additional non-audit services if th e need for the service was unanticipated 
and approval is required prior to the next schedule d meeting of the Audit Committee. Mr. Perry then co mmunicates such pre-approval to the full 
Audit Committee at its next meeting.  
   
29  
     Fiscal Year 2011      Fiscal Year 2010   
Audit Fees (1)     $ 3,314,257       $ 2,872,151    
Audit -Related Fees (2)       0         66,350    
Tax Fees (3)       283,782         268,246    
All Other Fees (4)       3,000         3,000    
                  
Total Fees     $ 3,601,039       $ 3,209,747    
       
  
       
  
  
(1) Audit fees include fees for the audit of our co nsolidated financial statements, the audit of our i nternal control over financial reporting, 
reviews of our quarterly financial statements and a nnual report, reviews of SEC registration statement s and related consents and fees related 
to statutory audits of some of our international en tities. 
(2) Audit -related fees for fiscal year 2010 consisted of fees  for an audit -related project. 
(3) Tax fees consist of fees for tax compliance and con sultation services. 
(4) All other fees consist of fees for products or serv ices other than those included above, including pay ment to PwC related to the use of an 
accounting regulatory database. 
Table of Contents  
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF  
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT  
The following table sets forth information as of Ja nuary 30, 2011 as to shares of our common stock ben eficially owned by:  
   
   
   
   
Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance wi th the SEC’s rules and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to 
securities as well as shares of common stock subjec t to options exercisable or restricted stock units that will vest within 60 days of January 30, 
2011. Unless otherwise indicated, the address of ea ch of the individuals listed below is c/o NVIDIA Co rporation, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, 
Santa Clara, California 95050.  
   
   
   
   
30  
  •   each director and nominee for director;  
  •   each of the executive officers named in the Summary  Compensation Table;  
  •   all of our directors and executive officers as a gr oup; and  
  •   all those known by us to be beneficial owners of mo re than five percent or more of our common stock.  
Name of Beneficial Owner (1)    
Shares  
Owned      
Shares Issuable 
 
Within 60 Days      
Total  
Shares  
Owned      Percent (%)   
Named Executive Officers:              
Jen -Hsun Huang (2)       21,117,380         2,982,955         24,100,335         4.07 %  
David L. White       0         225,000         225,000         *    
Ajay K. Puri       23,195         859,895         883,090         *    
David M. Shannon (3)       91,283         586,689         677,972         *    
Debora Shoquist       28,379         429,542         457,921         *    
Directors, not including CEO:              
Tench Coxe (4)       1,429,644         608,500         2,038,144         *    
James C. Gaither (5)       157,404         533,500         690,904         *    
Harvey C. Jones (6)       833,460         406,307         1,239,767         *    
William J. Miller (7)       302,808         848,500         1,151,308         *    
Mark L. Perry (8)       50,000         393,500         443,500         *    
A. Brooke Seawell (9)       285,000         520,000         805,000         *    
Mark A. Stevens (10)       1,837,866         178,000         2,015,866         *    
All directors and executive officers as a group  
(12 persons) (11)       26,156,419         8,572,388         34,728,807         5.82 %  
5% Stockholders:              
FMR LLC (12)       87,086,348         —            87,086,348         14.80 %  
PRIMECAP Management Company (13)       39,414,891         —            39,414,891         6.70 %  
  
* Represents less than 1 percent of the outstanding s hares of our common stock. 
(1) This table is based upon information provided t o us by our executive officers and directors. Infor mation about principal stockholders is 
based solely on Schedules 13G or 13G/A filed with t he SEC. Unless otherwise indicated in the relevant footnote to this table and subject to 
community property laws where applicable, we believ e that each of the stockholders named in the table has sole voting and investment 
power with respect to the shares indicated as benef icially owned. Applicable percentages of beneficial  ownerships are based on 588,555,701 
shares of our common stock outstanding as of Januar y 30, 2011, adjusted as required by SEC rules. 
(2) Includes (i) 19,466,775 shares of common stock held  by Jen -Hsun Huang and Lori Huang, as co -trustees of the Jen -Hsun and Lori Huang 
Living Trust u/a/d May 1, 1995, or the Huang Trust;  (ii) 1,237,239 shares of common stock held by J. a nd L. Huang Investments, L.P., of 
which the Huang Trust is the general partner; (iii)  52,845 shares of common stock held by the Jen-Hsun  Huang 2009 Annuity Trust, of 
which Mr. Huang is trustee; and (iv) 52,845 shares of common stock  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
31  
  
held by the Lori Lynn Huang 2009 Annuity Trust, of which Mr. Huang ’s wife is trustee. By virtue of their status as co -trustees of the Huang 
Trust, each of Jen-Hsun Huang and Lori Huang may be  deemed to have shared beneficial ownership of the 19,466,775 shares held by the 
Huang Trust and 1,237,239 shares held by J. and L. Huang Investments, L.P. and to have shared power to  vote or to direct the vote or to 
dispose of or direct the disposition of such securi ties.  
(3) Includes 66,880 shares of common stock held by the Shannon Revocable Trust, of which Mr. Shannon and h is wife are co -trustees and of 
which Mr. Shannon exercises shared voting and inves tment power. 
(4) Includes 171,312 shares of common stock held in  a retirement trust over which Mr. Coxe exercises s ole voting and investment power. 
Mr. Coxe disclaims beneficial ownership in these sh ares except as to his pecuniary interest in the sha res. Also includes 321,849 shares held 
in the Coxe Revocable Trust, or the Coxe Trust, of which Mr. Coxe and his wife are co-trustees and of which Mr. Coxe exercises shared 
voting and investment power. Mr. Coxe disclaims ben eficial ownership in the shares held by the Coxe Tr ust, except to the extent of his 
pecuniary interest therein. 
(5) Represents shares held by the James C. Gaither Revo cable Trust, of which Mr. Gaither is the trustee an d of which Mr. Gaither exercises sole 
voting and investment power. 
(6) Includes (i) 750,000 shares of common stock held in  the H.C. Jones Living Trust, of which Mr. Jones is  trustee and of which Mr. Jones 
exercises sole voting and investment power, (ii) 71 ,760 shares of common stock owned by ACK Family Par tners, L.P. of which Mr. Jones is 
a general partner and of which Mr. Jones exercises shared voting and investment power, and (iii) (a) 3 ,900 shares of common stock owned 
by the Gregory C. Jones Trust, of which Mr. Jones i s co-trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises share d voting and investment power, 
(b) 3,900 shares of common stock owned by the Carol yn E. Jones Trust, of which Mr. Jones is a co- trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises 
shared voting and investment power and (c) 3,900 sh ares of common stock owned by the Harvey C. Jones I II Trust, of which Mr. Jones is a 
co-trustee and of which Mr. Jones exercises shared voting and investment power, collectively, the Jone s Children Trusts. Mr. Jones 
disclaims beneficial ownership of the 71,760 shares  of common stock held by ACK Family Partners, L.P.,  except to the extent of his 
pecuniary interest therein. Mr. Jones disclaims ben eficial ownership of the 11,700 shares of common st ock held by the Jones Children 
Trusts, except to the extent of his pecuniary inter est therein. 
(7) Represents shares held by the Millbor Family Trust,  of which Mr. Miller and his wife are co -trustees and of which Mr. Miller exercises 
shared voting and investment power. 
(8) Represents shares held by The Perry & Pena Fami ly Trust, of which Mr. Perry and his wife are co-tr ustees and of which Mr. Perry exercises 
shared voting and investment power. 
(9) Represents shares held by the Rosemary & A. Brooke Seawell Revocable Trust U/A dated 1/20/2009, of whi ch Mr. Seawell and his wife are 
co -trustees and of which Mr. Seawell exercises shared voting and investment power. 
(10) Represents 1,837,866 shares held by the 3rd Millenn ium Trust, of which Mr. Stevens and his wife are co -trustees and of which Mr. Stevens 
exercises shared voting and investment power. 
(11) Includes shares described in footnotes two through ten above. 
(12) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/ A, dated February 11, 2011, filed with the SEC on F ebruary 14, 2011 by FMR LLC, or 
FMR, reporting its beneficial ownership as of Decem ber 31, 2010. The Schedule 13G/A reports that FMR h as sole voting power with 
respect to 6,609,951 shares and sole dispositive po wer with respect to 87,086,348 shares. FMR is locat ed at 82 Devonshire Street, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02109. 
(13) This information is based solely on a Schedule 13G/ A, dated February 4, 2011, filed with the SEC on Fe bruary 14, 2011 by PRIMECAP 
Management Company, or PRIMECAP, reporting its bene ficial ownership as of December 31, 2010. The Sched ule 13G/A reports that 
PRIMECAP has sole voting power with respect to 11,3 20,791 shares and sole dispositive power with respe ct to 39,414,891 shares. 
PRIMECAP is located at 225 South Lake Ave., #400, P asadena, California 91101. 
Table of Contents  
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
C OMPENSATION D ISCUSSION AND A NALYSIS  
Introduction  
This section explains our executive compensation pr ogram as it relates to the “named executive officers” listed below whose fiscal year 
2011 compensation information is presented in the t ables following this discussion in accordance with SEC rules. We compensate our executive 
officers based on our fiscal year (which ends on th e last Sunday of January of each year). Our fiscal year 2011 ran from February 1, 2010 to 
January 30, 2011. In this section we refer to our n amed executive officers as our executive officers, our fiscal year 2011 as fiscal 2011 and 
NVIDIA Corporation as the Company.  
   
Executive Summary  
Our compensation program is designed to attract, re tain and motivate a talented, innovative and entrep reneurial team of executives. To do 
so, we believe that the vast majority of their comp ensation should be based on performance, both of th e individual and of the business. In 
addition, our variable compensation programs are st ructured to recognize both short-term and long-term  contributions to the Company.  
Our compensation program is administered under a ri gorous process which includes review of peer group practices, advice of an 
independent third-party consultant (who reports to the Compensation Committee, not to the Company) and  long-standing, consistently applied 
practices with respect to the timing of equity gran ts and the pricing of stock options.  
Other important features of our compensation progra m include:  
   
   
   
   
   
32  
Jen -Hsun Huang    President and Chief Executive Officer, or CEO 
David L. White    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Office r, or CFO (1) 
Ajay K. Puri    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales 
David M. Shannon    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secre tary 
Debora Shoquist    Executive Vice President, Operations 
  
(1) Mr. White resigned as Executive Vice President and CFO, effective March 17, 2011. 
  •   We do not enter into employment contracts or severa nce agreements with any of our executive officers, including our CEO. All of our 
executive officers are “at will ” employees of NVIDIA.  
  
•   We do not offer change -in -control benefits to our executive officers, except for the change -in -control vesting acceleration provisions 
in our equity plans that are applicable to all hold ers of stock awards under such plans in the event t hat an acquiring company does not 
assume or substitute for such outstanding stock awa rds.  
  •   None of our executive officers (including our CEO) have any tax reimbursements or supplemental retirem ent benefits, nor do they 
receive any perquisites or change -in -control benefits that are not available to all NVID IA employees.  
  
•   We have determined that each of our executive offic ers and directors has exceeded our stock ownership guidelines, and, as shown 
above under Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and  Management , as of January 30, 2011 and assuming a fair market  
value of our common stock of $23.76 (which was the closing price of our common stock on the last tradi ng day of our fiscal year 
2011), our CEO has beneficial ownership of shares ( including both shares owned at, and shares he has t he right to acquire within 60 
days of, January 30, 2011) of our common stock havi ng a value in excess of 835 times his base salary a nd each of our other executive 
officers has beneficial ownership of shares (includ ing both shares owned at, and shares that such exec utive officers have the right to 
acquire within 60 days of, January 30, 2011) of our  common stock having a value in excess of 10 times their respective base salaries.  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
CEO Compensation .    Mr. Huang’s total compensation was greater in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010 due in large part t o (1) the 
restoration of his base salary to the fiscal 2009 l evel after having been reduced to $1 for fiscal 201 0 and (2) the reinstatement of the annual 
variable cash compensation plan for fiscal 2011. Fo r fiscal 2010, in recognition of the Company’s fiscal 2009 performance and the anticipated 
difficult economic environment for fiscal 2010, NVI DIA undertook a number of measures to address finan cial performance, including reducing 
Mr. Huang’s base salary as part of company-wide salary reductions and eliminating executive participat ion in the fiscal 2010 variable cash 
compensation plan. At the beginning of fiscal 2011,  the Compensation Committee restored Mr. Huang’s base salary and at the end of fiscal 2011 
in recognition of NVIDIA’s strong second-half performance and the accomplishment of strategic goals, t he Compensation Committee made its 
decisions for Mr. Huang’s fiscal 2011 variable compensation. Mr. Huang’s fiscal 2011 annual equity awards, which consisted entirely of stock 
options, had a grant date fair value of $3.255 mill ion as compared to $3.475 million for his fiscal 20 10 equity award, which also consisted 
entirely of stock options.  
   
33  
  •   We enforce a “no -hedging ” policy in our insider trading policy that prohibits  our directors and executive officers from hedging the 
economic interest in the NVIDIA shares they hold.  
  •   Since 2009, we have maintained a “clawback” policy for the recovery of performance-based compensation in the event of a financial 
restatement that, with respect to our CEO and CFO, does not require individual misconduct to be enforc ed.  
  
•   We review the external marketplace and make interna l comparisons among the executive officers when mak ing compensation 
determinations. The Compensation Committee does not  benchmark to specific levels, but rather reviews e xternal marketplace data as 
one of many factors considered when establishing ex ecutive compensation.  
  •   We structure our executive compensation programs to  avoid inappropriate risk -taking by our executives.  
  
•   Our compensation policies take into account the Com pany ’s economic circumstances. In fiscal 2010, in connec tion with a Company -
wide salary reduction, most of our executive office rs’ base salaries were reduced by 5% and our CEO’s salary was reduced to $1 (after 
taxes and benefit contributions) at his request.  
  
•   Our executive compensation is heavily weighted towa rd at-risk, performance-based compensation. In fisc al 2011, approximately 90% 
of our CEO’s target compensation and an average of 54% of our other executive officers’ target compensation was in the form of 
variable cash compensation and stock options that h ad an exercise price equal to 100% of the fair mark et value of our common stock 
on the date of grant.  
 
       
  
•   As of March 21, 2011, our compensation program rece ived the best possible score under the Institutiona l Shareholder Services, or ISS, 
corporate governance rating system known as GRId. B ased on an analysis of twenty-eight different varia bles reviewed by ISS, our 
compensation program was given a “low” level of concern, which is intended to indicate that our compen sation practices meet or 
exceed standard market practices.  
Table of Contents  
Pay for Performance.     Our variable cash compensation programs truly l ink executive pay to Company and individual perform ance. For 
fiscal 2009, we did not pay out any variable cash c ompensation amounts to our executive officers becau se the Company’s performance was 
below expectations and the threshold levels for pay outs approved by our Compensation Committee. In fis cal 2010, we decided at the start of the 
year that our executive officers would generally no t be eligible for variable cash compensation in lig ht of fiscal 2009 performance, expectations 
for fiscal 2010 and the need to reduce costs in rea ction to the global economic downturn.  
In fiscal 2011, we established a variable cash comp ensation program, or our Variable Plan, with a very  challenging corporate performance 
goal of GAAP net income for the year of $603 millio n, based on the market forecasts and internal corpo rate budget developed at the beginning 
of the year. As a reference, even though we had an actual GAAP net loss for fiscal 2010 of $68.0 milli on, we had positive GAAP net income 
results in the last two quarters of fiscal 2010 (GA AP net income in the third quarter of $107.6 millio n and in the fourth quarter of $131.1 million) 
and therefore felt the goal for fiscal 2011 was cha llenging but possible with very hard work. During t he second quarter of fiscal 2011, due to 
unanticipated changes in the economic environment a nd rapidly changing business conditions in our key segments and regions that dramatically 
affected our financial results, the Compensation Co mmittee determined that the corporate performance g oal was no longer achievable, regardless 
of the level of execution and performance from the employees who were eligible under our Variable Plan . The Compensation Committee was 
exceedingly concerned that if this program was not modified, fiscal 2011 would be the third consecutiv e year that the Company’s eligible 
employees (including our executive officers) would not receive any payout under our Variable Plan. Thi s concern was exacerbated by the 
paramount need to retain and motivate employees to ramp our Tegra business to exploit opportunities in  the mobile computing market, among 
other initiatives, in the second half of fiscal 201 1 and beyond. The Compensation Committee therefore concluded that the Variable Plan for 2011 
was no longer able to meet the objectives of attrac ting, retaining and motivating talented employees.  
Consequently, in September 2010, the Compensation C ommittee decided to split the original single annua l performance period of the plan 
into two six-month periods with respect to corporat e performance. The Compensation Committee determine d that no amount of compensation 
was earned with respect to corporate performance in  the first half of fiscal 2011 and it established a  new corporate goal and payout structure for 
the second half that would motivate employees to co ntinue to work hard to exploit the potential for th e Tegra business and other initiatives. 
Under the new payout structure, the corporate compo nent was capped at 120%, rather than 200%, of the c orporate target amount, and was also 
pro-rated so that it could only be earned in respec t of 50% of the original corporate target amount—th at is, the variable cash payout in respect of 
corporate performance for fiscal 2011 was capped at  a maximum of 30% of the total target variable cash  opportunity (rather than 100% of the 
original total target variable cash opportunity, as  was the case at the start of the year). At the end  of fiscal 2011, the Compensation Committee 
determined that the Company’s corporate performance exceeded the revised maximum level, resulting in a  capped payout of 120% of this 
second half goal, or 30% of the total target variab le cash compensation opportunity. Specifically, the  Company achieved GAAP net income in 
the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2011 of $25 6.6 million, an increase of $17.9 million (or 7%) o ver $238.7 million of net income in the third 
and fourth quarters of fiscal 2010.  
   
34  
Table of Contents  
In addition, despite the very difficult start to th e year, for fiscal 2011, compared to fiscal 2010, o ur stock price appreciated by 54%, GAAP 
net income increased by $321 million, and gross mar gin increased by 4.4 percentage points.  
   
Executive Compensation Philosophy and Overview  
The primary goal for our executive compensation pro gram is to attract, motivate and retain a talented,  innovative and entrepreneurial team 
of executives who will provide leadership for our s uccess in a dynamic, competitive market. We seek to  accomplish this goal in a way that is 
aligned with our business objectives, our performan ce and the long-term interests of our stockholders.  We design our executive compensation 
program to position NVIDIA competitively among the companies against which we recruit and compete for talent. We also consider the 
financial obligations created by our executive comp ensation program, as well as the equity expense and  the potential dilution of stockholder 
ownership.  
Consistent with recent years, the principal compone nts of our executive compensation program for fisca l 2011 consisted primarily of 
equity compensation, variable cash compensation and  base salaries. The Compensation Committee does not  use a strict weighting system 
between compensation elements for each executive of ficer, but instead considers the total compensation  necessary to motivate and retain these 
individuals with a mix that places greater weight o n performance-based components, including variable cash compensation and equity 
compensation. The Compensation Committee believes t hat a mix of both cash and equity incentives is app ropriate, as cash incentives reward 
executives for near term results, while equity ince ntives motivate executives to increase stockholder value in the longer term. In determining the 
mix between cash and equity, the total cash compens ation opportunity (base salary and variable cash co mpensation) was generally weighted less 
than the total equity compensation opportunity.  
Determining Executive Compensation  
Role of the Compensation Committee, Compensation Co nsultants, and Management  
The Compensation Committee meets periodically on a regular schedule throughout the year to manage our compensation program. The 
Compensation Committee determines the principal com ponents of compensation for our executive officers on an annual basis, typically at the 
beginning of the applicable fiscal year. The Compen sation Committee then meets again mid-year in prepa ration for the equity grants that are 
made in September each year, and has the opportunit y to review and revise compensation decisions at th at time.  
In making its decisions, the Compensation Committee  obtains advice from an independent executive compe nsation consultant engaged 
directly by the Compensation Committee. For fiscal 2011, the Compensation Committee engaged Exequity L LP, or Exequity, to act as its 
independent compensation consultant. Exequity took its direction from the Compensation Committee Chair man and interacted with management 
(our CEO and human resources department) to obtain compensation data that management gathered, based o n parameters established by the 
Compensation Committee, from the Radford Executive Survey (for decisions in early fiscal 2011) and fro m the successor survey, the Radford 
Global Technology Survey (for decisions in Septembe r 2011). Exequity provided the Compensation Committ ee with the following services in 
fiscal year 2011:  
   
   
35  
($ in millions except per share data)   
Fiscal Year 
 
2010     
Fiscal Year 
 
2011     Change   
Fiscal Year End Closing Stock Price    $ 15.39      $ 23.76      $ 8.37    
Revenue    $ 3,326      $ 3,543      $ 217    
GAAP Gross Margin      35.4 %      39.8 %      4.4 pp  
GAAP Net Income (Loss)      ($68.0 )    $ 253.1      $ 321.1    
GAAP Income (Loss) Per Share      ($0.12 )    $ 0.43      $ 0.55    
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Ba lance at Fiscal Year End    $ 1,728      $ 2,491      $ 763    
  •   reviewed and provided recommendations on compositio n of peer groups;  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exequity does not provide any services directly to NVIDIA. However, NVIDIA paid the cost for Exequity’s services on behalf of the 
Compensation Committee for fiscal year 2011.  
With respect to compensation for our CEO, the Compe nsation Committee, working directly with its compen sation consultant and without 
the presence of our CEO, deliberates and makes deci sions regarding the salary, variable incentive comp ensation level and equity-based 
compensation opportunity to be awarded to our CEO f or the new fiscal year, as well as variable compens ation payouts for the prior fiscal year. 
The Compensation Committee establishes the written individual performance goals for our CEO. The Compe nsation Committee evaluates the 
CEO’s performance taking into account a self-review prepared by the CEO and the Compensation Committee ’s own judgment of the results 
achieved by our CEO as compared to goals establishe d at the beginning of the fiscal year.  
In setting compensation for our executive officers,  the Compensation Committee solicits input of our C EO, who recommends to the 
Compensation Committee the salary, variable incenti ve compensation level and equity-based compensation  to be awarded to our executive 
officers (other than himself) for the new fiscal ye ar. Our CEO also recommends the individual performa nce goals for our executive officers 
(other than himself) for the new fiscal year. The C EO then evaluates the performance of the other exec utive officers at the end of the fiscal year 
and makes the related recommendations on variable c ompensation payouts for that fiscal year. The Compe nsation Committee gives considerable 
weight to our CEO’s evaluations because of his direct knowledge of each executive’s performance and contributions.  
The Compensation Committee remains solely responsib le for making the final decisions on compensation f or our executive officers, 
including our CEO. No executive officer is present during discussions of his or her compensation packa ge or participates directly in approving 
the amount of any component of his or her own compe nsation package.  
Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation  
In any given year, when establishing the elements o f executive compensation, the Compensation Committe e may take into consideration 
one or more of the following factors:  
   
   
36  
  •   analyzed the Radford survey data;  
  •   conducted a comparative study of the Company ’s executive compensation policies, practices and pr ocedures relative to other public 
companies and prepared and submitted to the Compens ation Committee a report and recommendations;  
  •   conducted an independent analysis and review of the  compensation arrangements for our CEO and provided  recommendations to the 
Compensation Committee regarding base salary, varia ble cash compensation and equity grant level for ou r CEO;  
  •   conducted a review of compensation for our Board, a nd provided recommendations to the Compensation Com mittee and the Board 
regarding Board pay structure;  
  •   updated the Compensation Committee on emerging tren ds/best practices in the area of executive and Boar d compensation;  
  •   reviewed and provided feedback on our compensation risk analysis; and  
  •   reviewed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis f or inclusion in our proxy statement.  
  
•   the belief that the total compensation opportunity and the percentage of total compensation “at risk ” should increase as the level of 
responsibility rises—e.g., because the CEO has over all responsibility for our entire company, his tota l compensation opportunity is 
significantly greater, as is his percentage of perf ormance -based compensation;  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
The relative weight, if any, given to each of the f actors above varies with each individual executive officer and with respect to each 
element of compensation at the sole discretion of t he Compensation Committee.  
Peer Companies and Market Compensation Data  
The Compensation Committee reviews market practices  for compensating our desired talent pool, includin g data from our Peer Companies 
(as described below), for the three major component s of our compensation program. When reviewing and a nalyzing the amount of each major 
component and the total compensation opportunity fo r our executive officers other than Mr. Huang, the Compensation Committee reviews each 
component at the market average and 75 percentile for our Executive Peers (as defined belo w) for guidance. For Mr. Huang, the Compensation 
Committee reviews the 50 percentile and the 75 perc entile, because data at the 50 percentile is much m ore readily available, and therefore 
representative of the middle of the market, in resp ect of chief executive officers than it is for our other named executive officers. The 
Compensation Committee, however, does not set compe nsation components to meet specific benchmarks, suc h as targeting salaries “at the 50 
percentile” or equity compensation “at the 75 perce ntile”. Rather, the Compensation Committee reviews this peer data as a reference point in 
determining whether the total compensation opportun ity is likely to provide sufficient motivation and retention as well as whether it properly 
reflects the executive’s role and scope of responsibilities relative to companies with whom we compete  for talent. The Compensation Committee 
chooses the actual amount of each element of compen sation and the total compensation opportunity of ea ch executive officer based in part on 
this peer data and in part on the factors discussed  above in Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation and below in respect of actual 
decisions for fiscal 2011.  
In early fiscal 2011, Exequity and our human resour ces department recommended and our Compensation Com mittee approved, with only 
minor changes from the recommendations, three diffe rent groups of Peer Companies: Employee Peers, Exec utive Peers and Semiconductor 
Peers. Employee Peers are the companies in various industries with which we feel we generally compete for talent. Executive Peers are 
companies that (i) the Company generally thinks it competes with for executive talent; (ii) have an es tablished business, market presence and 
complexity similar to NVIDIA; and (iii) are of simi lar size to NVIDIA as measured by revenue and  
   
37  
  
•   internal pay equity — that is, we assess an executive officer ’s responsibilities, the scope of their position and  the complexity of the 
department or function they manage, relative to the ir internal peers, and set compensation levels with in a relatively narrow band for 
comparably situated executives;  
  •   the Company ’s performance, operating budget and expected financ ial constraints;  
  •   the trends in compensation paid to similarly situat ed officers at our three groups of Peer Companies;  
  •   the market average and 75 percentile of compensation paid to our Executive Pe ers;  
  •   an executive ’s historical and anticipated performance;  
  •   the need to motivate executives to address particul ar business challenges that are unique to any given  year;  
  •   the independent judgment of the members of our Comp ensation Committee;  
  •   our CEO ’s recommendations, because of his direct knowledge of the results delivered and leadership demonstrate d by each executive;  
  
•   a review of a current executive officer ’s total compensation as set forth in a tally sheet that includes: (i) current and past base salary, 
(ii) target and actual variable compensation in pre vious years, (iii) amount and value of shares grant ed to each executive officer in the 
prior four fiscal years, and (iv) the market averag e and 75 percentile of compensation levels paid to executives in similar positions at 
our Executive Peers, as we believe this helps us in  determining the amount of compensation that is nee ded to attract, retain and 
motivate our executives; and  
  •   the total compensation cost and stockholder dilutio n resulting from executive compensation actions as we believe this helps us 
maintain a responsible cost structure for our compe nsation programs.  
th 
th 
th 
th th th 
th 
th 
Table of Contents  
market capitalizations at roughly .5-2x that of NVI DIA. For Executive Peers, the median revenue and ma rket capitalization was approximately 
$3.5 billion and $12 billion, respectively, which c losely approximates the Company’s revenue and market capitalization. Semiconductor Peers 
are all the companies in the semiconductor industry  within the Employee Peer group. The Compensation C ommittee uses the Employee Peers 
and Semiconductor Peers to monitor trends in compen sation generally. The Compensation Committee views the Executive Peer data as more 
indicative of the level of compensation necessary t o attract, retain and motivate executives and uses this data in the tally sheets.  
For fiscal 2011, our Employee Peers (listed under t he column titled “EE” below), Executive Peers (listed under the column titled “EX” 
below) and Semiconductor Peers (listed under the co lumn titled “SC” below) consisted of the companies listed below, or our Peer Companies. 
With the exception of the addition of the companies  as noted by footnote below for fiscal 2011, we did  not change our peer groups relative to 
fiscal 2010.  
   
   
   
38  
Company Name   EE   EX   SC    Company Name   EE   EX   SC 
Adobe Systems, Inc.    X   X      Marvell Technology Group LTD    X   X   X 
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.    X   X   X    Maxim Integrated, Inc.**    X     X 
Agilent Technologies, Inc.    X   X      Micron Technology, Inc.    X   X   X 
Altera Corporation    X   X   X    Microsoft Corporation    X     
Amazon.Com, Inc.    X   X      Motorola, Inc.    X     
Analog Devices, Inc.*    X        National Semiconductor Corporation    X   X   X 
Apple Inc.    X   X      Nokia Corporation*    X     
Autodesk, Inc.    X   X      NXP Semiconductor N.V.**    X     X 
Avago Technologies    X     X    On Semiconductor Corporation    X     X 
Broadcom Corporation    X   X   X    Oracle Corporation    X     
Cadence Design Systems, Inc.    X        Palm, Inc    X     
Cisco Systems, Inc.    X        QUALCOMM Incorporated    X   X   
Cypress Semiconductor Corporation    X   X   X    Riverbed Technology, Inc.*    X     
Dell Inc.    X        Samsung Telecommunications America LLC    X     
eBay Inc.    X   X      SanDisk Corporation    X   X   X 
Electronic Arts Inc.    X   X      Sharp Microelectronics Of The Americas    X     X 
EMC Corporation    X        Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc.    X     
Ericsson Inc.    X        STMicroelectronics N.V.    X     X 
Flextronics International Ltd.*    X        Sun Microsystems, Inc.    X   X   
Google Inc.    X        Symantec Corporation    X     
Infineon Technologies AG    X     X    Synopsys, Inc.    X     
Intel Corporation    X     X    Texas Instruments Incorporated    X   X   X 
Intuit Inc.    X   X      VMWare, Inc.*    X     
Juniper Networks, Inc.    X   X      Western Digital Corporation*    X     
KLA -Tencor Corporation    X   X      Xilinx, Inc.    X   X   X 
LSI Corporation    X   X   X    Yahoo! Inc.    X     
  
* This company was added as an employee peer for fisc al 2011 because we generally compete for talent wit h this company. 
** This company was added as both an employee peer and a semiconductor peer for fiscal 2011 because we  generally compete for talent with 
this company and it is in the semiconductor industr y. 
Table of Contents  
Elements of Compensation  
Equity Compensation  
The Compensation Committee believes that equity com pensation is the most important element of our tota l compensation package, and for 
that reason, more than 50% of the total target valu e of the annual compensation opportunity for each o f our executive officers is provided as 
equity compensation. The Compensation Committee bel ieves that properly structured equity compensation works to align the long-term interests 
of stockholders and employees by creating a strong,  direct link between employee compensation and stoc k price appreciation. The 
Compensation Committee also believes that if our ex ecutive officers own shares of our common stock wit h values that are significant to them, 
they will have an incentive to act to maximize long er-term stockholder value instead of short-term gai n. Further, the Compensation Committee 
believes that equity compensation is an integral co mponent of our efforts to attract and retain except ional executives, senior management and 
employees.  
In recent years, we have granted a mix of stock opt ions and restricted stock units, or RSUs. Each stoc k option grant allows the executive 
officer the opportunity to acquire shares of our co mmon stock at a fixed price per share (the closing price of our common stock on the date of 
grant) over a specified period of time. Options ves t based on continued service over a specified perio d, most recently over four-year period with 
a one-year cliff. As a result of the way we structu re our option awards, options provide a return to o ur executive officers only if the market price 
of our common stock appreciates over the option ter m and only if the executive officer remains with NV IDIA through each vesting date.  
Each RSU grant allows the executive officer the opp ortunity to acquire shares of our common stock subj ect to continued service on each 
vesting date (generally over either three or four y ears). The value of each RSU increases or decreases  with our stock price (which, in recent 
years, has been highly volatile). As a result, the Compensation Committee believes that RSUs reflect a t -risk, performance-based compensation. 
The Compensation Committee also realizes that RSUs provide some level of certain return as executives do not pay an exercise price on the 
award, and the Compensation Committee believes this  time-based return has served a necessary retention  purpose in recent years due to the 
volatility of our stock, especially as the majority  of our Peer Companies award RSUs. Finally, the Com pensation Committee uses RSUs as a tool 
to manage the dilutive effect of our compensation p rogram, as we generally award fewer RSUs than we wo uld options in order to achieve the 
desired value of the equity award, since the grant date value of one share of stock subject to an RSU,  using customary valuation principles, is 
greater than the value of one share of stock subjec t to a stock option.  
The Compensation Committee determines the aggregate  size of the annual equity award taking into accoun t the desire to create a 
meaningful opportunity for stock ownership, the nee d for internal pay equity, dilution management as d etermined by reference to our equity 
budget for the year for the entire company, the eff ect of the award size on the total target compensat ion opportunity for the year and whether the 
award size is likely to achieve our motivation and retention goals. As noted above under Factors Used in Determining Executive Compensation , 
no one single factor was determinative and there wa s no formula or specific weighting to equity compen sation that was used. In considering 
motivation and retention, the Compensation Committe e reviewed the tally sheet analysis. The Compensati on Committee did not benchmark to 
specific levels on the tally sheets, but instead no ted that total cash compensation for 2010 was signi ficantly below the middle of the market for 
our executive officers other than Mr. Huang (given his high target variable cash compensation opportun ity, as discussed in greater detail below), 
and that in order to retain these executives, equit y grants for 2011 should result in total target com pensation closer to the market average of the 
Peer Companies while still reflecting internal pay equity.  
For fiscal 2011, once the desired aggregate value w as determined (using a projected hypothetical stock  price value that was higher than the 
fair market value on the ultimate date of grant), t he Compensation Committee divided the value in half —allocating 50% to the grant in the first 
half of the fiscal year and 50% to the grant in the  second half of the fiscal year. With regards to al locating between options and RSUs, for fiscal 
2011, the Compensation Committee split the target g rant date value roughly equally (other than with re spect to  
   
39  
Table of Contents  
Mr. Huang). In general, the Compensation Committee believed this 50/50 value ratio of options to RSUs was appropriate because it was equally 
concerned with motivating long-term value creation (through the need for sustained increases in our st ock price for stock options to have 
meaningful value) and promoting retention (through limiting the risk associated with our stock price v olatility by granting RSUs). However, with 
respect to Mr. Huang, due to his history with NVIDI A as a founder, his accumulated stock holdings, and  his deep ties to the Company, the 
Compensation Committee did not have the same retent ion concerns as it did for other executive officers . In addition, given his responsibility for 
the operations and performance of the entire enterp rise, the Compensation Committee determined that th e compensation he receives from equity 
grants should be based solely on stock price apprec iation to reinforce his focus on long-term sharehol der value creation.  
For fiscal 2011, in determining the number of share s needed to achieve the 50/50 value ratio of option s to RSUs, the Compensation 
Committee used a ratio of three stock option shares  to one RSU share, as this was determined, at the t ime of the analysis to approximate the 
relative grant date fair values of the awards (usin g a Black-Scholes model). The Compensation Committe e determined the number of RSUs by 
using a hypothetical projected fair market value (f or the future grant date) for our common stock, and  then multiplied the resulting number of 
shares by three to determine the number of shares s ubject to the option grant. We note that because th e fair market value on the date of grant was 
lower than the projected hypothetical value used to  determine the aggregate award value at the time th e Compensation Committee made its 
decisions, the actual grant date value is not evenl y split between options and RSUs and is lower, in t he aggregate, than the value that was 
originally targeted by our Compensation Committee. Even though the fair market value was lower than an ticipated on the grant date, we did not 
increase the number of shares to be granted in orde r to reach the originally determined target value. We also note that the grant date value of the 
respective equity awards does not correspond to the  actual economic value that may be realized by an e xecutive officer upon vesting or exercise 
of these awards. The actual economic value of these  awards will depend directly on the performance of our stock price over the period during 
which the RSUs vest and options can be exercised an d the executive’s decision on exercise and sale (which decision may be constrained by our 
stock ownership guidelines). An option award may re sult in no income to the employee if our stock pric e does not exceed the exercise price at 
the time of exercise and ultimately at the time of sale.  
The Compensation Committee made the first half gran ts in March 2010 as shown in the table below. In Se ptember 2010, the Compensation 
Committee reviewed the grant sizes for the second h alf of the year that had been established at the st art of fiscal 2011 and decided no changes 
were necessary.  
   
Variable Cash Compensation  
Variable cash compensation, administered under our Variable Plan, is designed to align executive compe nsation with the executive 
officer’s individual performance and our annual financial performance. The Variable Plan provides that  up to 50% of the target opportunity, 
which we call the Individual Target Amount, is earn ed based on how well the executive officer performs  against his or her individual objectives, 
which earned amount we call the Individual Componen t, and up to 50% of the target opportunity, which w e call the Corporate Target Amount, is 
earned based on our success at achieving a financia l performance target, which earned amount we call t he Corporate Component.  
   
40  
     Stock Options      Restricted Stock Units      Actual  
Aggregate  
Grant Date  
Fair Value   
  Market  
Positioning  
of Equity  
Awards Name    
March  
2010      
September 
2010      Total      
March  
2010      
September 
2010      Total        
Jen -Hsun Huang       250,000         250,000         500,000         0         0         0       $ 3,255,000      <50 
David L. White       37,500         47,500         85,000         12,500         12,500         25,000       $ 886,625      < MA* 
Ajay K. Puri       41,250         47,500         88,750         13,750         12,500         26,250       $ 922,788      MA –  75 
David M. Shannon       37,500         47,500         85,000         12,500         12,500         25,000       $ 871,625      <MA 
Debora Shoquist       35,000         35,000         70,000         11,500         11,500         23,000       $ 763,940      <MA 
  
* MA means market average. 
th 
th 
Table of Contents  
The total target opportunity (that is, the Individu al Target Amount plus the Corporate Target Amount),  or Cash Target, is equal to a 
specified percentage of the executive officer’s base salary. At the beginning of each fiscal year, our  Compensation Committee generally 
establishes the Cash Target for each executive offi cer. However, in February 2010, the Compensation Co mmittee decided not to engage in a full 
review and adjustment of Cash Targets for fiscal 20 11, deciding instead to use the same levels as used  for fiscal 2009. The Compensation 
Committee chose to defer the review and adjustment until later in the year consistent with the Company ’s plan to review base salaries for all 
leaders in the Company in September 2010 (as furthe r described below).  
   
Instead, in September 2010, as part of the process of adjusting base salaries, the Compensation Commit tee reviewed the Cash Target for 
each executive officer and made the adjustments, if  any, as reflected in the table below. The Compensa tion Committee reviewed the tally sheets, 
which include the target cash opportunity (expresse d as a percentage of base salary) for similarly sit uated executives at the market average (or 50 
percentile for Mr. Huang) and 75th percentiles of o ur Executive Peers. The Compensation Committee chos e the adjusted Cash Target for each 
of our executive officers based in part on peer dat a (without benchmarking to a specific level) and in  part on internal pay equity, the desired 
emphasis for cash compensation and variable cash co mpensation for fiscal 2011 for that executive, our financial projections and budget for fiscal 
2011, economic conditions and historical compensati on levels. The Compensation Committee did not use a  formula or assign a particular weight 
to any one factor in determining the Cash Target fo r our executive officers. Rather, the Compensation Committee’s determination of the adjusted 
Cash Target was subjective. The Compensation Commit tee considered that the performance goal for our fi scal 2011 Variable Plan (even as 
adjusted), like past fiscal years, demanded signifi cant year-over-year improvements in corporate perfo rmance. For example, as disclosed in prior 
proxy statements, our fiscal 2007 variable cash pla n required an 81% year-over-year increase in adjust ed annual net income for threshold 
performance, our fiscal 2008 variable cash plan req uired a 46% year-over-year increase in adjusted annual net income for tar get performance and 
our fiscal 2009 variable cash plan required a 26% y ear-over-year increase in actual annual net income.  The Compensation Committee believes 
that performance at these exceptional target levels  is generally deserving of compensation that is abo ve the median and closer to the 75th 
percentile for peer companies. In addition, the Com pensation Committee took into account the importanc e of internal pay equity (particularly as 
among Messrs. White, Puri and Shannon), and the con current salary decisions, and the reasons for the s alary decisions, set forth below under 
Base Salary for our executive officers other than Mr. Huang. Fo r Mr. Huang, the Compensation Committee made an aff irmative decision to 
weight Mr. Huang’s cash compensation more heavily toward at-risk incentive compensation given his over all responsibility for the Company’s 
performance. Therefore, they maintained his base sa lary at a level that was below the 25th percentile for peer companies and made the 
corresponding decision to set his Cash Target at su ch a level that his total target cash compensation was between the 50th and 75th percentiles.  
   
   
41  
Executive Officer    
Original  
Cash Target      
% of  
Salary     
Market Position of 
Dollar Value of  
Variable Cash   
Market Position of Total 
Cash Opportunity  
(Salary + Variable Cash) 
Jen -Hsun Huang     $ 1,500,000         250 %    >75th   50th – 75th 
David L. White     $ 385,000         91 %    MA* – 75th   <MA 
Ajay K. Puri     $ 350,000         116 %    >75th   <MA 
David M. Shannon     $ 275,000         92 %    MA -75th   <MA 
Debora Shoquist     $ 225,000         82 %    MA -75th   <MA 
  
* MA means market average. 
Executive Officer    
Original  
Cash Target      
New  
Cash  
Target*      
New % of 
Salary**     
Market Position of Total 
Cash Opportunity  
(Salary + Variable Cash) 
Jen -Hsun Huang     $ 1,500,000       $ 1,500,000         250 %    50th – 75th 
David L. White     $ 385,000       $ 385,000         91 %    <MA*** 
Ajay K. Puri     $ 350,000       $ 385,000         91 %    MA – 75th 
David M. Shannon     $ 275,000       $ 385,000         91 %    >75 
Debora Shoquist     $ 225,000       $ 225,000         64 %    <50 
th 
th 
th 
Table of Contents  
   
   
With respect to the Individual Component, for fisca l 2011, 75% of the Individual Target Amount was wei ghted toward specified individual 
strategic objectives and 25% of the Individual Targ et Amount was weighted towards overall leadership d emonstrated at NVIDIA. The individual 
strategic objectives generally included results to be achieved in the executive officer’s function or area, such as revenue growth, gross margin 
improvement, quality of products delivered and redu cing waste. Leadership objectives included hiring e xceptional talent, building a strong 
organization, improving core processes and supporti ng global expansion. For fiscal year 2011, there wa s no maximum payout cap on the 
Individual Component. The Compensation Committee di d not use a formula or assign a particular weight t o any individual strategic goal in 
determining the Cash Target for our executive offic ers. Rather, the Compensation Committee’s determination of the Individual Component was 
subjective and taken with regard to the totality of  the executive’s achievements.  
With respect to the Corporate Component, for fiscal  2011, 100% of the Corporate Target Amount was depe ndent upon achievement of net 
income as determined in accordance with generally a ccepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Net income was the same financial performance 
target used by the Compensation Committee in fiscal  2009 (the last fiscal year that the Compensation C ommittee established a Corporate 
Component of the Variable Plan). The Compensation C ommittee selected net income because it believed th is financial measure would most 
accurately reflect the underlying performance of th e business in fiscal 2011 and therefore management’s performance. In February 2010, the 
Compensation Committee set GAAP net income goals fo r threshold, target and maximum performance and cor responding payouts, with the 
goals set based on the Company’s internal annual business plan, as shown in the table below. The Compe nsation Committee believed, in 
February 2010, that the target level was attainable  with significant effort, but achievement was not c ertain. No amount of the Corporate 
Component would be earned unless the Company exceed ed the threshold level of performance. Payouts woul d be interpolated on a straight line 
for achievement between the threshold and maximum a mounts.  
   
In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we faced a ch allenging economic environment and rapidly changing  business conditions in our key 
segments and regions that dramatically affected our  financial results. Specifically, while net income for the first quarter was $137.6 million, we 
faced a net loss of $141.0 million in the second qu arter, due in part to rising memory costs and the w eakness of the Euro which increased end 
market prices of graphics add-in cards. In addition , the growing economic concerns in Europe and China  began to create pressure on 
discretionary spending. As a result, the market mov ed towards lower-cost GPUs and PCs with integrated graphics. These issues 
disproportionately affected NVIDIA for two reasons.  Firstly, our product strategy is oriented more tow ards the higher-end of the 
market. Secondly, our discrete GPU attach rates in Europe and China are the highest in the world, and our share in both those regions is very 
high.  
As a result of these economic and business conditio ns, the Compensation Committee became concerned tha t if the Variable Plan was not 
modified, fiscal 2011 would be the third consecutiv e year that the Company’s eligible employees (including our executive officers) would not 
receive a payout under the Variable Plan. This conc ern was exacerbated by the paramount need to attrac t new employees, as well as to retain and 
motivate existing employees, to ramp our Tegra busi ness to exploit opportunities in the mobile computi ng market, among other initiatives, in the 
second half of fiscal 2011 and beyond. The Compensa tion Committee concluded that the fiscal 2011 Varia ble Plan was no longer able to meet 
the objectives of attracting, retaining and motivat ing talented employees.  
   
42  
  
* Note that the actual variable compensation earned a t year end was calculated by multiplying the salary  earned during the year against the 
Cash Target percentage in effect at the time the sa lary was earned. 
** Calculated as a percentage of the new salary that w as established in September 2010. 
*** MA means market average. 
    
GAAP Net  
Income    
Payout of Pro -Rated  
Corporate Target Amount 
Threshold Amount    $492 million   No payout 
Target Amount    $603 million   100% 
Maximum Amount    $787 million   200% 
Table of Contents  
Therefore, in September 2010, the Compensation Comm ittee decided to split the original single annual p erformance period of the Variable 
Plan into two six-month periods with respect to cor porate performance. The Compensation Committee dete rmined that no amount of variable 
compensation was earned with respect to the Corpora te Component in the first half of fiscal 2011. Empl oyees could still earn variable 
compensation for the full year in respect of the In dividual Component, a decision which the Compensati on Committee felt was necessary for 
retention and motivation.  
As shown in the table below, the Compensation Commi ttee established a new corporate goal for target an d maximum net income for the 
second half that it believed would provide motivati on to employees to continue to work hard to exploit  the potential for the Tegra business and 
other initiatives and would provide an attractive i ncentive for new hire candidates (as this Variable Plan applied throughout the Company, not 
just for our executive officers). The Compensation Committee believed the target goal for a 100% payou t was attainable with significant effort, 
but not certain, in light of our second quarter res ults. The Compensation Committee reduced the maximu m payout on the Corporate Component 
from 200% of the full year value of the Corporate C omponent to 120% of half of the full year value of the Corporate Component. Payouts would 
be interpolated on a straight line for achievement of GAAP net income for the third and fourth quarter s between 0% and the target result of $142 
million, and from 100% to 120% for achievement in t he second half of fiscal 2011 between the target am ount and the maximum amount. There 
was no threshold level of performance for a payout on the Corporate Component.  
   
   
At the end of fiscal 2011, the Compensation Committ ee determined that the Company exceeded the second half GAAP net income 
maximum goal, resulting in a payout of 60% of the o riginal Corporate Target Amount for the original fu ll year plan (that is, 120% of 50% of the 
Corporate Target Amount), which equated to 30% of t he executive officer’s Cash Target for the year. Specifically, the Company achieved 
aggregate GAAP net income in the third and fourth q uarters of fiscal 2011 of $256.6 million, an increa se of $17.9 million (or 7%) over the 
$238.7 million net income in the third and fourth q uarters of fiscal 2010. Total GAAP net income for f iscal 2011 was $253 million, or 42% of 
the original target level of $603 million establish ed in February 2011 and $239 million less than the original threshold level of $492 million.  
Although our Compensation Committee did not cap the  maximum payout amount under the Individual Compone nt for fiscal 2011, the 
Compensation Committee did not approve payment to a ny executive officer in excess of 130% of the Indiv idual Target Amount for individual 
performance in fiscal 2011. The Compensation Commit tee evaluated each executive officer’s performance to determine the Individual 
Component payout in March 2011 as follows:  
   
   
43  
     
GAAP Net  
Income*     
Payout of Pro-Rated 
Corporate Target  
Amount** 
Target Amount     $142 million    100% 
Maximum Amount     $177 million    Up to 120% 
  
* Aggregate goal for combined Q3 and Q4 results. 
** 50% of original Corporate Target Amount. 
  
•   Mr. Huang:    The Compensation Committee determined  that Mr. Huang achieved the following individual p erformance goals in fiscal 
2011: (i) introduced NVIDIA 3.0, and repositioned t he Company as a parallel processor company with lea dership in visual, parallel, 
and mobile computing; (ii) settled the Intel disput e and entered into 6-year cross-license; (iii) Tesl a was adopted by high visibility 
installations—Tianhe and Tsubame; (iv) Tegra was th e world’s first dual core processor and won the first round of Android tablets; 
(v) GeForce regained leadership position with secon d generation GTX5xx family; (vi) completed an archi tecture license for next 
generation ARM architecture and established ARM as the Company’s CPU architecture; and (vii) gross margins were at a record level 
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. As a result o f these achievements, the Compensation Committee ap proved an Individual 
Component payout to Mr. Huang of $975,000, which re presents 130% of his Individual Target Amount, for a total variable 
compensation payout of 95% of his Cash Target.  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
As a result, the executive officers received the fo llowing in total variable cash compensation under t he Variable Plan as revised:  
   
Base Salary  
Base salary is the fixed portion of executive pay u sed to compensate executives for their expected day -to-day performance. The 
Compensation Committee generally establishes base s alaries at the beginning of each year. At the begin ning of fiscal 2011, our Compensation 
Committee reinstated the base salaries of our execu tive officers to their 2009 salary levels, ending t he fiscal 2010 cost-cutting salary reductions 
in light of the Company’s improved financial condition at the end of fiscal 2010. However, the Compens ation Committee decided to defer any 
additional base salary adjustments until the second  half of fiscal 2011, consistent with the deferral of the timing of its review of base salaries of 
other non-executive officer leaders of the Company.  In  
   
44  
  
•   Mr. White:    The Compensation Committee determined  that Mr. White achieved the following performance goals in fiscal 2011: 
(i) developed new financial planning process; (ii) implemented new approval processes; (iii) implement ed cost savings and measures; 
and (iv) provided support and assisted in negotiati ons with key suppliers and partners. As a result of  these achievements, the 
Compensation Committee approved an Individual Compo nent payout to Mr. White of $144,375, which represe nts 75% of his 
Individual Target Amount, for a total variable comp ensation payout of 67.5% of his Cash Target.  
  
•   Mr. Puri:    The Compensation Committee determined that Mr. Puri achieved the following performance go als in fiscal 2011: 
(i) increased revenue for fiscal year 2011; (ii) ma intained a competitive, focused and motivated team;  (iii) improved sales processes; 
and (iv) attracted and retained key talent in the i ndustry. As a result of these achievements, the Com pensation Committee approved an 
Individual Component payout to Mr. Puri of $180,834 , which represents 100% of his Individual Target Am ount, for a total variable 
compensation payout of 80% of his adjusted Cash Tar get.  
  
•   Mr. Shannon:    The Compensation Committee determin ed that Mr. Shannon achieved the following performa nce goals in fiscal 2011: 
(i) completed an architecture license for next gene ration ARM architecture and established ARM as the Company’s CPU architecture; 
(ii) formulated employee training programs; (iii) s ettled the Intel litigation and negotiated a licens e agreement with Intel; (iv) reduced 
electronic discovery costs; and (v) continued to bu ild our intellectual property portfolio. As a resul t of these achievements, the 
Compensation Committee approved an Individual Compo nent payout to Mr. Shannon of $155,835, which repre sents 100% of his 
Individual Target Amount, for a total variable comp ensation payout of 80% of his adjusted Cash Target.   
  
•   Ms. Shoquist:    The Compensation Committee determi ned that Ms. Shoquist achieved the following perfor mance goals in fiscal 2011: 
(i) met targets for gross margin, including record levels of gross margin in the fourth quarter; (ii) reduced waste; (iii) built a new 
product introduction capability; and (iv) implement ed several significant process improvements with pa rtners. As a result of these 
achievements, the Compensation Committee approved a n Individual Component payout to Ms. Shoquist of $1 12,500, which 
represents 100% of her Individual Target Amount, fo r a total variable compensation payout of 80% of he r Cash Target.  
Executive Officer    
Corporate  
Component Payout      
Individual  
Component Payout      
Total Variable  
Compensation Payout   
Jen -Hsun Huang     $ 450,000       $ 975,000       $ 1,425,000    
David L. White     $ 115,500       $ 144,375       $ 259,875    
Ajay K. Puri*     $ 180,834       $ 180,834       $ 289,334    
David M. Shannon*     $ 93,500       $ 155,835       $ 249,335    
Debora Shoquist     $ 67,500       $ 112,500       $ 180,000    
  
* Note that the actual payout was calculated by multi plying the salary earned during the year against th e Cash Target percentage in effect at the 
time the salary was earned. Therefore, his total va riable compensation payout is not equal to 80% of h is adjusted Cash Target, but a lesser 
amount. 
Table of Contents  
September 2010, the Compensation Committee reviewed  the annual base salaries for our executive officer s, other than Mr. Huang (reflecting the 
Compensation Committee’s decision to weight Mr. Huang’s total target compensation for fiscal 2011 more heavily toward performance based 
compensation).  
In reviewing the base salaries in September 2011, o ur Compensation Committee reviewed the tally sheets , which included the base salary 
data for similarly situated executives at the marke t average and 75th percentiles of our Executive Pee rs. The Compensation Committee set the 
base salary levels for the balance of fiscal 2011 b ased in part on peer data (without benchmarking to a specific level) and in part on internal pay 
equity, our financial projections and budget consid erations, economic conditions and historical compen sation levels. In particular, the 
Compensation Committee considered the fact that mos t of our executives, like most of our broader emplo yee population, had not received pay 
increases in the past few years in light of the dif ficult economy and need for broad-based cost-cuttin g measures. The Compensation Committee 
also considered, as a general principle, the fact t hat our stock price had been depressed in the prior  year, and therefore stock option grants to our 
executive officers had been made at lower market pr ices. Therefore our executives faced the potential for meaningful compensation through their 
stock options as the performance of the Company, an d our stock price, increased, and this compensation  would be performance-based. The 
Compensation Committee did not use a formula or ass ign a particular weight to any one factor in determ ining the base salaries for our executive 
officers. Rather, the Compensation Committee’s determination of the adjusted base salaries was subject ive. In setting base salaries in September 
2010, the Compensation Committee also specifically considered the following:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
45  
  •   Mr. White:    Given his recent hiring and given tha t his total target compensation level was within ac ceptable ranges for internal pay 
equity, the Compensation Committee chose not to adj ust Mr. White ’s base salary.  
  
•   Mr. Puri:    Mr. Puri has significant experience as  a technology sales leader, having spent more than 5 years as head of sales at 
NVIDIA, and has worked to expand NVIDIA ’s sales into new market segments during this time. His salary and total target cash 
compensation had fallen well below the market avera ge, and he had not received a salary increase since  joining NVIDIA in 2005. The 
salary adjustment reflected below, when considered in connection with his variable cash compensation o pportunity, provided a total 
target cash compensation opportunity at just over t he market average while maintaining internal pay eq uity.  
  
•   Mr. Shannon:    Mr. Shannon has significant experie nce as a general counsel of a technology company, w ith more than 8 years 
experience as general counsel and secretary of NVID IA. His salary and total target cash compensation h ad fallen well below the 
market average, and he had not received a salary in crease since 2005. The salary adjustment reflected below, when considered in 
connection with his variable cash compensation oppo rtunity, provided a total target cash compensation opportunity closer to the 
market average while maintaining internal pay equit y.  
  
•   Ms. Shoquist:    Ms. Shoquist has extensive experie nce as a senior operations officer of a technology company, with more than 3 years 
experience leading operations at NVIDIA. Her role a t NVIDIA involves strategic supply chain management  which has a significant 
impact on our financial results. Her salary and tot al target cash compensation had fallen well below t he market average, and she had 
not received a salary increase since joining NVIDIA  in 2008. The salary adjustment reflected below, wh en considered in connection 
with her variable cash compensation opportunity, pr ovided a total target cash compensation opportunity  at just under the market 
average while maintaining internal pay equity.  
     
Salary Before 
September  
Review      
Salary after 
September 
Review      % Change     
Market Position 
of Base Salary   
Market Position 
of Total Cash  
Opportunity 
Jen -Hsun Huang     $ 600,000       $ 600,000         0 %    <25th   50th – 75th 
David L. White     $ 425,000       $ 425,000         0 %    <MA*   <MA 
Ajay K. Puri     $ 300,000       $ 425,000         42 %    MA – 75th   MA – 75th 
David M. Shannon     $ 300,000       $ 425,000         42 %    MA – 75th   <MA 
Debora Shoquist     $ 275,000       $ 350,000         27 %    >75th   <MA 
  
* MA means market average. 
Table of Contents  
Other Benefits  
Signing Bonus .     As part of our negotiations with Mr. White at the t ime of his hiring in fiscal 2009, we agreed to pay him a signing bonus 
of $200,000 over the course of his first year of se rvice with us, payable in four equal quarterly inst allments. Mr. White received the last 
installment of his signing bonus at the beginning o f fiscal 2011. The Compensation Committee believed that it was necessary to pay Mr. White 
the signing bonus as an inducement to him to give u p his existing compensation opportunities at his pr ior company.  
Health, Welfare, Retirement and ESPP Benefits .    In order to attract and retain qualified execu tive officers and other employees, we must 
offer a competitive package of health and welfare p rograms. We maintain medical, vision, dental and ac cidental death and disability insurance as 
well as professional time off and paid holidays for  all of our employees. Our executive officers are e ligible to participate in these programs along 
with and on the same basis as our other employees. Like all of our full-time employees, our executive officers are eligible to participate in our 
1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and our 401(k) pl an.  
No Perquisites .    Our executive officers do not receive any perq uisites or personal benefits that are not available  to all NVIDIA employees 
on the same terms and conditions. Our strong cultur al belief is that our executive officers should be treated the same as our employees.  
Severance and Change -in -Control Agreements .    We generally do not have severance or change-i n-control agreements with any of our 
employees, including our executive officers. While such agreements are offered by many of our Peer Com panies, we want to encourage 
executive officers to focus on growing and building  value for our stockholders, a focus that we believ e is best accomplished through the use of 
at-risk compensation elements such as variable cash  compensation and long-term equity grants, rather t han severance protections.  
In addition, we believe our executives should gener ally be treated in the same way as our employees. U nder the circumstances described 
below under the heading Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Agreeme nts , all of the stock options or RSUs held by our empl oyees, 
including our executive officers, would be accelera ted if they were not assumed or substituted by an a cquiring company in a change-in-control 
transaction. The Compensation Committee included th is provision in our equity incentive plan to motiva te all of our employees, including our 
executive officers, to act in the best interest of our stockholders by removing the distraction of pos t-change of control uncertainties faced by 
employees, including executive officers, with regar d to their continued employment and equity compensa tion. We believe that this stock plan 
provision provides sufficient protection to allow o ur employees, including our executive officers, to focus on the success of a potential business 
combination, rather than worrying about how busines s decisions that may be in the best interest of NVI DIA will impact their own financial 
security. That is, we believe this provision will h elp ensure stability among our employee ranks, and will help enable our employees to maintain 
a balanced perspective in making overall business d ecisions during periods of uncertainty.  
However, as part of our negotiations with Mr. White  at the time of his hiring in fiscal 2009, we agree d to provide additional double trigger 
vesting protection for a limited period of time to Mr. White, in order to induce him to join NVIDIA an d in light of the severance protections he 
was leaving behind at his prior employer. If Mr. Wh ite’s employment was involuntarily terminated as a direct result of the completion of an 
acquisition of NVIDIA within the first twelve month s after his employment, the vesting of his initial grant of 450,000 stock option shares would 
have been accelerated such that 25% of such grant w ould be vested as of the date his employment was te rminated. This potential benefit expired, 
pursuant to its terms, in early fiscal 2011.  
Additional Executive Compensation Practices, Polici es and Procedures  
Compensation Recovery Policy  
In April 2009, our Board adopted a Compensation Rec overy Policy pursuant to which, if (i) we are requi red to prepare an accounting 
restatement to correct an accounting error on an in terim or annual financial statement included in a r eport on Form 10-Q or Form 10-K due to 
material noncompliance with any financial reporting   
   
46  
Table of Contents  
requirement under the federal securities laws, or a  Restatement, and (ii) the Board or a committee of independent directors concludes that our 
CEO or CFO had received a variable compensation pay ment, or portion thereof, that would not have been payable if the original interim or 
annual financial statements reflected the Restateme nt, then our CEO or CFO shall disgorge to NVIDIA th e net after-tax amount of such variable 
compensation payment.  
In addition, pursuant to the Compensation Recovery Policy, if the Board or a committee of independent directors determines that an officer 
(including but not limited to our CEO and CFO) or o ther employee received a variable compensation paym ent, or portion thereof, that would not 
have been payable if our original interim or annual  financial statement reflected a Restatement, then the Board or such committee, in its 
discretion, may take similar actions as it deems ne cessary after their evaluation of the events that g ave rise to the Restatement. In using its 
discretion, the Board or such committee may conside r whether such person was involved in the preparati on of our financial statements or 
otherwise caused the need for the Restatement. Such  actions may include, to the extent permitted by ap plicable law, requiring partial or full 
repayment of any variable compensation or other inc entive compensation paid to such person, requiring repayment of any gains realized on the 
exercise of stock options or on the open-market sal e of vested shares and causing the partial or full cancellation of restricted stock or deferred 
stock awards and outstanding stock options. We will  review and update the Compensation Recovery Policy  as necessary for compliance with the 
clawback policy provisions of the Dodd- Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Ac t as and when the final regulations related to that  
policy are issued.  
Stock Ownership Guidelines  
Our Corporate Governance Policies require each exec utive officer to hold at least 25,000 shares of our  common stock during the period in 
which he or she serves as an executive officer, unl ess our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committ ee waives the requirement. The 
25,000 shares may include vested but unexercised st ock options and vested but unissued RSUs. Executive  officers will have 18 months from the 
date that they become executive officers to reach t he ownership threshold. Each of our executive offic ers currently meets the stock ownership 
requirement. We also note that as shown above under  “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management”, as of January 30, 
2011 and assuming a fair market value of our common  stock of $23.76 (which was the closing price of ou r common stock on the last trading day 
of our fiscal year 2011), our CEO has beneficial ow nership of shares (including both shares owned at, and shares he has the right to acquire 
within 60 days of, January 30, 2011) of our common stock having a value in excess of 835 times his bas e salary and each of our other executive 
officers has beneficial ownership of shares (includ ing both shares owned and shares that such executiv e officers have the right to acquire within 
60 days of January 30, 2011) of our common stock ha ving a value in excess of 10 times their respective  base salaries.  
Hedging Policy  
Since our initial public offering in 1999, our poli cies have prohibited our employees, including our e xecutive officers, from engaging in 
transactions to “hedge” ownership of our stock, including short sales or tr ading in any derivatives involving our securities. We believe this policy 
is consistent with good corporate governance and wi th our pay for performance compensation model.  
Managing the Use of Equity  
While equity is an important component of overall c ompensation, we carefully monitor the number of equ ity-based awards granted to 
employees. We strive to balance compensation to emp loyees against equity expense and the potential dil ution of stockholder ownership by 
budgeting the number of equity-based awards availab le for employee grants and establishing a dilution budget. For fiscal 2011, the 
Compensation Committee established a total dilution  budget of 3.25% to 3.75% of our outstanding shares  of common stock for all employees 
and new hire grants other than those related to mer ger and acquisition activity. Our actual dilution r ate for fiscal 2011 was 3.40%. For purposes 
of our annual dilution rate calculations, each RSU is counted as more than one share (as set forth bel ow) with the exact multiple ranging in any 
given year from 1.5 to 4 shares based on our stock price volatility. In fiscal 2011, based on our hist orical common stock volatility at the time the  
   
47  
Table of Contents  
dilution budget was established, each RSU was count ed as 2 shares. To calculate the actual dilution fo r fiscal 2011, we calculated the sum of 
each stock option granted as 1 unit and each RSU gr anted as 2 units and divided the sum of these by th e number of shares of common stock 
outstanding on the last day of our fiscal year (Jan uary 30, 2011). We expect our dilution rate to vary  in future periods as our business and 
competitive environment change, as our hiring needs  change, and in response to any accounting or regul atory developments.  
Equity Granting Policies  
In fiscal year 2007, the Compensation Committee ado pted specific policies regarding the grant dates of  equity applicable to all employees. 
As part of its overall compensation review, the Com pensation Committee annually reviews these policies  and makes adjustments. Our grant 
policies are currently as follows:  
   
   
   
We do not grant stock options upon the exercise of an option using shares already in the holder’s possession (i.e. reload options), make 
loans to executives to exercise their stock options  or, for any other reason, grant stock options at a  discount (other than in connection with 
assuming or replacing existing target company award s as part of mergers and acquisitions in accordance  with applicable tax laws and NASDAQ 
listing requirements), or allow semi-annual or off- cycle grants to be made to our executive officers w hen our stock trading window is closed.  
Tax and Accounting Implications  
Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code li mits the amount that we may deduct from its federal  income taxes for remuneration 
paid to our CEO and three most highly compensated e xecutive officers (other than our CFO) to $1 millio n per executive per year, unless certain 
requirements are met. Section 162(m) provides an ex ception from this deduction limitation for certain forms of “performance-based 
compensation,” including the gain recognized by an executive upon the exercise of qualifying compensat ory stock options. While the 
Compensation Committee is mindful of the benefit to  NVIDIA performance of full deductibility of compen sation, the Compensation Committee 
believes that it should not be constrained by the r equirements of Section 162(m) where those requireme nts would impair flexibility in 
compensating our executive officers in a manner tha t can best promote our corporate objectives. Theref ore, the Compensation Committee has 
not adopted a policy that requires that all compens ation be deductible. The Compensation Committee int ends to continue to compensate our 
executive officers in a manner consistent with the best interests of NVIDIA and our stockholders.  
   
48  
  
•   New Hire Grants.     The grant date for new employees, including a r ecently hired executive officer, is the 6th busines s day of the 
month following the new employee’s start date. New hire grants to executive officers are made as part of our monthly process that 
includes grants to all recently hired employees. Th e exercise price of all new hire grants is equal to  the closing price of our common 
stock on the grant date.  
  
•   Semi -Annual Grants.     The Compensation Committee makes grants semi -annually to our executive officers on the third Wed nesday 
of March and the third Wednesday of September, cons istent with our policy for other employees. During the first quarter of the fiscal 
year, the Compensation Committee approves a target equity grant for each eligible executive for the fi scal year, which is divided as 
follows: (a) 50% of the target grant is granted in March and (b) the remaining 50% is budgeted to be g ranted in September. The 
exercise price of all the executive semi-annual sto ck option grants is the closing price of our common  stock on the grant date. Semi-
annual grants will not be made to our executive off icers during blackout periods under our insider tra ding policy. Instead, executive 
semi -annual grants will be made on the day that the blac kout period ends.  
  
•   Other Grants.     All other grants to existing executive officers  and employees throughout the year, which we call o ff -cycle grants, will 
have a grant date of the 6th day of the month subse quent to the date of the event leading to the grant , provided that the grant is 
approved on or prior to such grant date. No off- cycle grants may be granted to our executive office rs during blackout periods under our 
insider trading policy. Instead, they will be made as part of the next monthly grant cycle when the tr ading window is open. Also, the 
Compensation Committee must approve any off cycle g rants to executive officers. No off-cycle grants we re made to our executive 
officers during fiscal 2011.  
Table of Contents  
Stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the grants, and is  recognized as an expense over the 
requisite employee service period. We use a binomia l option pricing model to estimate the fair value o f each stock option grant for accounting 
purposes.  
R 
ISK A NALYSIS OF O UR C OMPENSATION P LANS  
With the oversight of the Compensation Committee of  the Board of Directors, the Company’s senior vice president of human resources, its 
senior corporate counsel and members of the finance  department, collectively Management, as well as Ex equity, the independent consultant 
engaged by the Compensation Committee, performed an  assessment of the Company’s compensation programs and policies for fiscal 2011 as 
generally applicable to our employees to ascertain any potential material risks that may be created by  the compensation programs. The 
assessment focused on programs with variability of payout and the ability of participants to directly affect payout and the controls over 
participant action and payout. Specifically, Manage ment and Exequity reviewed the Company’s variable cash compensation and equity 
compensation programs. Management and Exequity iden tified the key terms of these programs, potential c oncerns regarding risk taking behavior 
and specific risk mitigation features. Management’s assessment was first presented to and discussed wi th members of the Company’s executive 
staff, including our general counsel and our interi m chief financial officer. The assessment was then presented to and discussed with the 
Compensation Committee.  
The Compensation Committee considered the findings of the assessment conducted as described above and concluded that our 
compensation programs are designed and administered  with the appropriate balance of risk and reward in  relation to our overall business strategy 
and do not encourage employees to take unnecessary or excessive risks, and that the level of risk that  they do encourage is not reasonably likely 
to materially harm our business or financial condit ion.  
The Compensation Committee believes that although a  significant percentage of compensation provided to  our employees is performance-
based, the following compensation design features g uard against excessive risk-taking:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
49  
  
•   our compensation program encourages our employees t o remain focused on both our short -term and long -term goals. For example, 
while our variable cash compensation plans measured  performance on a semi-annual basis in fiscal 2011,  our equity awards vest 
ratably over three or four years, which we believe encourages our employees to focus on the long -term performance of NVIDIA;  
  
•   we design our variable cash compensation programs s o that payouts are based on achievement of both ind ividual and corporate 
performance targets. With respect to the corporate target, we use net income as a financial metric wit h goals based on our annual 
operating plan, which the Compensation Committee be lieves is a financial metric that drives long-term stockholder value, and we cap 
the potential award payout;  
  •   we have internal controls over our financial accoun ting and reporting, including net income, which is used to measure and determine 
the eligible compensation award under our plan;  
  •   final awards are approved by the Compensation Commi ttee;  
  
•   except for equity grants to our CEO, who is a found er and significant stockholder, we grant a combinat ion of RSUs and stock options 
to employees at the director level and above, which  the Compensation Committee believes provides an ap propriate balance between 
upside opportunity and downside risk;  
  •   we have a compensation recovery policy applicable t o all employees that allows NVIDIA to recover compe nsation paid in situations of 
fraud or material financial misconduct;  
  •   we have stock ownership guidelines that we believe are reasonable and are designed to align our execut ive officers’ interests with 
those of our stockholders; and  
  •   we prohibit all hedging transactions involving our common stock which prevents our employees from insu lating themselves from the 
effects of NVIDIA stock price performance.  
Table of Contents  
S UMMARY C OMPENSATION T ABLE F OR F ISCAL Y EARS 2011, 2010 AND 2009  
The following table summarizes information regardin g the compensation earned by our chief executive of ficer, our chief financial officer, 
and our other three executive officers during fisca l years 2011, 2010 and 2009. We refer to these indi viduals as our named executive officers.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
50  
Name and Principal  
Position   
Fiscal 
Year    
Salary  
($)     
Bonus  
($)     
Stock  
Awards  
($)(1)(2)      
Option  
Awards  
($)(2)     
Non-Equity  
Incentive Plan 
Compensation 
($)(3)      
All Other  
Compensation 
($)     
Total  
($)   
Jen -Hsun Huang    2011     598,442        —           —            3,255,000        1,425,000         750 (4)      5,279,192    
Chief Executive Officer 
and President  
  2010     7,145 (5)      —           —            3,475,000 (6)      —            —           3,482,145    
  2009     401,272 (5)      —           —            3,298,400        —            —           3,699,672    
David L. White (7)    2011     423,366        50,000 (8)      358,250         528,375        259,875         —           1,619,866    
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial 
Officer  
  2010     348,855 (9)      150,000 (8)      —            2,196,000        176,640         —           2,871,495    
  2009     —           —           —            —           —            —           —       
                  
Ajay K. Puri    2011     347,111        —           380,875         541,913        289,334         7,848 (10)      1,567,081    
Executive Vice President, 
Worldwide Sales  
  2010     333,671 (11)      —           532,020         666,225        —            —           1,531,916    
  2009     301,154        —           —            966,125        —            6,344 (10)      1,273,623    
                  
David M. Shannon    2011     340,032        —           358,250         513,375        249,335         —           1,460,992    
Executive Vice President, 
General Counsel and 
Secretary 
 
  2010     326,009 (11)      —           815,703         799,595        —            —           1,941,306    
  2009     300,000        —           —            966,125        —            —           1,266,125    
                  
                  
Debora Shoquist    2011     298,654        —           329,590         434,350        180,000         —           1,242,594    
Executive Vice President, 
Operations  
  2010     267,946 (11)      —           819,073         611,740        —            —           1,698,758    
  2009     270,769        —           —            933,600        —            —           1,204,369    
  
(1) In fiscal year 2010, we introduced RSUs as a fo rm of equity compensation to all employees, includi ng executive officers. In fiscal years 
2010 and 2011, our executive officers (except Messr s. Huang and White, as explained below) received as  equity compensation a 
combination of RSUs and stock options. 
(2) Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dollar amounts actually received by the executive officer.  Instead, these amounts reflect the 
aggregate full grant date fair value calculated in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 for the respecti ve fiscal year. The assumptions used 
in the calculation of values of the awards are set forth under Note 3 to our consolidated financial st atements entitled “Stock-Based 
Compensation ” in our Annual Report on Form 10 -K for fiscal year 2011, filed with the SEC on March  16, 2011. 
(3) As applicable, reflects amounts earned in fiscal ye ars 2011 and 2010 and paid in March 2011 and March 2010, respectively, pursuant to our 
2011 Variable Compensation Plan and 2010 Variable C ompensation Plan, respectively. No amounts were pai d in fiscal year 2010 (except to 
Mr. White) pursuant to our 2010 Variable Compensati on Plan or in fiscal year 2009 under our 2009 Varia ble Compensation Plan. For 
further information please see the discussion in ou r Compensation Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 32 of this proxy statement. 
(4) Represents an award for the filing of a patent of w hich Mr. Huang is an inventor with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the PTO. 
Awards are made to all NVIDIA employees whose paten ts are filed by NVIDIA with the PTO. 
(5) Mr. Huang voluntarily decreased his base salary  to $1, after taxes and benefit contributions, with  respect to all of fiscal year 2010 and 
effective October 1, 2008 with respect to fiscal ye ar 2009. With respect to fiscal year 2010, includes  a payment in connection with the 
mandatory company -wide cash -out of accrued vacation of $161. 
(6) In connection with the settlement of the stockholde r derivative lawsuits relating to our historical st ock option practices, effective May 7, 
2009, NVIDIA and Mr. Huang agreed to amend the stoc k options granted to Mr. Huang on March 31, 2006, M arch 21, 2007 and March 19, 
2008 to increase the aggregate exercise price of 70 0,747 shares held by Mr. Huang by $3.5 million. The  incremental fair value of these 
modified options as determined in accordance with F ASB ASC Topic 718 is $0. 
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
51  
(7) Mr. White joined NVIDIA as our Executive Vice Presi dent and Chief Financial Officer in February 2009, the first month of fiscal 2010. 
Mr. White resigned as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective March 17, 20 11. 
(8) Represents the aggregate amount of a signing bo nus paid to Mr. White in fiscal year 2010. The sign ing bonus was payable in quarterly 
installments of $50,000. The last installment of th e signing bonus was paid during fiscal year 2011. 
(9) Represents the pro-rated portion of Mr. White’s  salary based on his start date of February 27, 200 9. Effective September 1, 2009, 
Mr. White ’s base salary for fiscal year 2010 was temporarily reduced by 5% in connection with a company -wide salary reduction action. 
(10) Represents imputed income for provision of medical insurance for an additional person. 
(11) Effective March 1, 2009 through January 31, 2010, M essrs. Puri’s and Shannon’s and Ms. Shoquist’s base salary was temporarily reduced 
by 5% in connection with a company-wide salary redu ction action. Includes a payment in connection with  the mandatory company-wide 
cash -out of accrued vacation in the amounts of $38,077, $37,884 and $3,831 to Messrs. Puri and Shannon and Ms. Shoquist, respectively. 
Table of Contents  
G RANTS OF P LAN -B ASED A WARDS F OR F ISCAL Y EAR 2011  
The following table provides information regarding all grants of plan-based awards that were made to o r earned by our named executive 
officers during fiscal year 2011. Disclosure on a s eparate line item is provided for each grant of an award made to a named executive officer. The 
information in this table supplements the dollar va lue of stock options and other awards set forth in the Summary Compensation Table For 
Fiscal Years 2011, 2010 and 2009 by providing additional details about the awards.  
The option grants to purchase shares of our common stock set forth in the following table were made un der our 2007 Plan. The exercise 
price of options granted under the 2007 Plan is equ al to the closing price of our common stock as repo rted by NASDAQ on the date of grant. 
Under the 2007 Plan, the exercise price may be paid  in cash, in shares of our common stock valued at f air market value on the exercise date or 
through a cashless exercise procedure involving a s ame-day sale of the purchased shares. All stock opt ion grants are subject to service based 
vesting.  
During fiscal year 2011, none of our named executiv e officers were awarded or held any performance-bas ed equity incentive awards.  
   
   
52  
Name    
Grant  
Date      
Approval  
Date      
Estimated  
Possible  
Payouts  
Under  
Non-Equity  
Incentive  
Plan  
Awards  
(1)  
Target ($)      
All Other 
Stock  
Awards: 
Number  
of Shares 
of Stock  
or Units  
(#)     
All Other  
Option  
Awards:  
Number of 
Securities  
Underlying 
Options  
(#)     
Exercise 
or Base 
Price of 
Option  
Awards 
($/Sh)     
Grant Date  
Fair Value  
of Stock and 
Option  
Awards  
($)(2)   
Jen -Hsun Huang       3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            —           250,000 (3)      18.10 (4)      2,055,000    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            —           250,000 (5)      10.56 (6)      1,200,000    
     N/A         N/A         1,125,000             
David L. White       3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            12,500 (7)          226,250    
     3/17/2010         2/24/2010            —           37,500 (3)      18.10 (4)      300,375    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            12,500 (8)          132,000    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            —           47,500 (5)      10.56 (6)      228,000    
     N/A         N/A         288,750             
Ajay K. Puri       3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            13,750 (7)      —           —           248,875    
     3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            —           41,250 (3)      18.10 (4)      313,913    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            12,500 (8)      —           —           132,000    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            —           47,500 (5)      10.56 (6)      228,000    
     N/A         N/A         271,250             
David M. Shannon       3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            12,500 (7)      —           —           226,250    
     3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            —           37,500 (3)      18.10 (4)      285,375    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            12,500 (8)      —           —           132,000    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            —           47,500 (5)      10.56 (6)      228,000    
     N/A         N/A         233,750             
Debora Shoquist       3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            11,500 (7)      —           —           208,150    
     3/17/2010         2/24/2010         —            —           35,000 (3)      18.10 (4)      266,350    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            11,500 (8)      —           —           121,440    
     9/15/2010         9/7/2010         —            —           35,000 (5)      10.56 (6)      168,000    
     N/A         N/A         168,750             
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
53  
  
(1) Represents possible awards under our amended 2011 V ariable Compensation Plan as further explained in t he section titled Compensation 
Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 32 of this proxy statement. Possi ble target awards under our original 2011 Variable 
Compensation Plan are also discussed in detail in o ur Compensation Discussion and Analysis. 
(2) Amounts shown in this column do not reflect dol lar amounts actually received by the executive offi cer. Instead, these amounts reflect the 
aggregate full grant date fair value calculated in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 for the awards. The assumptions used in the 
calculation of values of the awards are set forth u nder Note 3 to our consolidated financial statement s entitled “Stock-Based Compensation” 
in our Annual Report on Form 10 -K for fiscal year 2011, filed with the SEC on March  16, 2011. 
(3) Represents stock options granted to our named e xecutive officers in the first quarter of fiscal ye ar 2011 pursuant to our 2007 Plan. The 
Compensation Committee approved these grants on Feb ruary 24, 2010 for grant on March 17, 2010, the sam e day that semi-annual grants 
were made to all of our other eligible employees. 
(4) Represents the closing price of our common stoc k as reported by NASDAQ on March 17, 2010, which is  the exercise price of stock option 
grants made under our 2007 Plan. 
(5) Represents stock options granted to our named e xecutive officers in the third quarter of fiscal ye ar 2011 pursuant to our 2007 Plan. The 
Compensation Committee approved these grants on Sep tember 7, 2010 for grant on September 15, 2010, the  same day that semi-annual 
grants were made to all of our other eligible emplo yees. 
(6) Represents the closing price of our common stoc k as reported by NASDAQ on September 15, 2010, whic h is the exercise price of stock 
option grants made under our 2007 Plan. 
(7) Represents RSUs granted to Messrs. White, Puri and Shannon and Ms. Shoquist in the first quarter o f fiscal year 2011 pursuant to our 2007 
Plan. The Compensation Committee approved these gra nts on February 24, 2010 for grant on March 17, 201 0, the same day that semi-
annual grants were made to all of our other eligibl e employees. There is no purchase price associated with RSUs. 
(8) Represents RSUs granted to Messrs. White, Puri and Shannon and Ms. Shoquist in the third quarter of fi scal year 2011 pursuant to our 2007 
Plan. The Compensation Committee approved these gra nts on September 7, 2010 for grant on September 15,  2010, the same day that semi-
annual grants were made to all of our other eligibl e employees. There is no purchase price associated with RSUs. 
Table of Contents  
O UTSTANDING E QUITY A WARDS AS OF J ANUARY  30, 2011  
The following table presents information regarding outstanding equity awards held by our named executi ve officers as of January 30, 2011. 
As of January 30, 2011, none of our named executive  officers held unearned equity incentive awards or stock awards.  
   
   
54  
     Option Awards      Stock Awards   
Name    
Number of  
Securities  
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options (#) 
Exercisable      
Number of  
Securities  
Underlying  
Unexercised  
Options (#)  
Unexercisable     
Option  
Exercise 
Price  
($)     
Option  
Expiration 
Date      
Number of  
Units of Stock 
That Have  
Not Vested (#)     
Market Value of 
Units of Stock  
That Have Not  
Vested ($)   
Jen-Hsun Huang       1,145,455         —           11.95 (1)      7/25/2011         —           —       
     750,000         —           12.39 (1)      5/14/2012         —           —       
     600,000         —           8.47 (1)      5/16/2012         —           —       
     150,000         —           10.00 (2)      5/16/2012         —           —       
     74,127         77,626 (3)      19.16 (1)      3/30/2013         —           —       
     —            164,025 (4)      34.36 (2)      9/18/2014         —           —       
     —            180,000 (5)      10.00 (2)      9/16/2015         —           —       
     —            250,000 (6)      10.20 (2)      3/17/2016         —           —       
     150,873         147,374 (3)      23.65 (7)      3/30/2013         —           —       
     —            202,500 (8)      23.65 (7)      3/20/2014         —           —       
     —            200,000 (9)      23.65 (7)      3/18/2015         —           —       
     —            250,000 (10)      15.94 (2)      9/15/2016         —           —       
     —            250,000 (11)      18.10 (2)      3/16/2017         —           —       
     —            250,000 (12)      10.56 (2)      9/14/2020         —           —       
David L. White       196,875         253,125 (13)      8.30 (2)      3/8/2015         —           —       
     —            37,500 (14)      18.10 (2)      3/16/2016         —           —       
     —            47,500 (15)      10.56 (2)      9/14/2020         —           —       
               12,500 (16)      297,000 (17)  
               12,500 (18)      297,000 (17)  
Ajay K. Puri       566,611         __        12.05 (1)      12/21/2011         —           —       
     56,249         __        18.90 (1)      3/20/2013         —           —       
     45,563         __        34.36 (2)      9/18/2013         —           —       
     62,500         __        17.66 (2)      3/18/2014         —           —       
     28,125         28,125 (19)      10.00 (2)      9/16/2014         —           —       
     37,198         26,552 (20)      10.20 (2)      3/17/2015         —           —       
     18,760         26,240 (21)      15.94 (2)      9/15/2015         —           —       
     —            41,250 (22)      18.10 (2)      3/16/2016         —           —       
     —            47,500 (12)      10.56 (2)      9/14/2020         —           —       
     —            —           —           —            17,868 (23)      424,544 (17)  
     —            —           —           —            6,998 (24)      166,272 (17)  
     —            —           —           —            13,750 (25)      326,700 (17)  
     —            —           —           —            12,500 (26)      297,000 (17)  
David M. Shannon       117,500           8.47 (1)      5/16/2011         —           —       
     150,000         —           19.16 (1)      3/30/2012         —           —       
     67,500         —           18.90 (1)      3/20/2013         —           —       
     54,675         —           34.36 (2)      9/18/2013         —           —       
     62,500         —           17.66 (2)      3/18/2014         —           —       
     28,125         28,125 (19)      10.00 (2)      9/16/2014         —           —       
     52,572         37,528 (20)      10.20 (2)      3/17/2015         —           —       
     17,718         24,782 (21)      15.94 (2)      9/15/2015         —           —       
        37,500 (22)      18.10 (2)      3/16/2016         —           —       
        47,500 (12)      10.56 (2)      9/14/2020         —           —       
     —            —           —           —            28,352 (23)      673,644 (17)  
     —            —           —           —            9,913 (24)      235,533 (17)  
               12,500 (25)      297,000 (17)  
               12,500 (26)      297,000 (17)  
Debora Shoquist       250,000           36.93 (2)      10/4/2013         —           —       
     75,000           17.66 (2)      3/18/2014         —           —       
     15,000         15,000 (19)      10.00 (2)      9/16/2014         —           —       
     40,231         28,719 (20)      10.20 (2)      3/17/2015         —           —       
     13,549         18,951 (21)      15.94 (2)      9/15/2015         —           —       
        35,000 (22)      18.10 (2)      3/16/2016         —           —       
        35,000 (12)      10.56 (2)      9/14/2020         —           —       
     —            —           —           —            31,251 (23)      742,524 (17)  
               7,581 (24)      180,125 (17)  
               11,500 (25)      273,240 (17)  
               11,500 (26)      273,240 (17)  
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
55  
  
(1) Represents the closing price of our common stock as  reported by NASDAQ on the last trading day prior t o the date of grant which is the 
exercise price of stock option grants made pursuant  to our 1998 Plan. 
(2) Represents the closing price of our common stoc k as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant which is the exercise price of stock option 
grants made pursuant to our 2007 Plan. 
(3) The option vests in equal quarterly installment s over a one year period beginning on May 15, 2010 such that the option will be fully vested 
on May 15, 2011. 
(4) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on Februar y 15, 2012, and vests as to the remaining 50% of th e shares on May 15, 2012. 
(5) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on Februar y 15, 2013, and vests as to the remaining 50% of th e shares on May 15, 2013. 
(6) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on August 15, 2013, and vests as to the remaining 50% of the shares on November 15, 2013. 
(7) In connection with the settlement of the stockh older derivative lawsuits relating to our historica l stock option practices, effective May 7, 
2009, NVIDIA and Mr. Huang agreed to amend the stoc k options granted to Mr. Huang on March 31, 2006, M arch 21, 2007 and March 19, 
2008 to increase the aggregate exercise price of op tions exercisable for an aggregate of 700,747 share s held by Mr. Huang by $3.5 million. 
(8) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on August 15, 2011, and vests as to the remaining 50% of the shares on November 15, 2011. 
(9) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on August 15, 2012, and vests as to the remaining 50% of the shares on November 15, 2012. 
(10) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on Februar y 15, 2014, and vests as to the remaining 50% of th e shares on May 15, 2014. 
(11) The option vests as to 50% of the shares on August 15, 2014, and vests as to the remaining 50% of the shares on November 15, 2014. 
(12) The option vests as to 25% of the shares on Septemb er 15, 2011, and vests as to 6.25% at the end of ea ch quarterly period thereafter such 
that the option will be fully vested on September 1 5, 2014. 
(13) The option vested in equal quarterly installments o ver a four year period beginning on February 27, 20 10 such that the option would have 
been fully vested on February 27, 2014. 
(14) The option would have vested as to 25% of the share s on June 17, 2013, and would have vested as to the  remaining 75% of the shares in 
equal quarterly installments over the next nine mon ths such that the options would have been fully ves ted on March 17, 2014. 
(15) The option would have vested as to 25% of the share s on September 15, 2011, and would have vested as t o 6.25% at the end of each 
quarterly period thereafter such that the option wo uld have been fully vested on September 15, 2014. 
(16) The RSU would have vested as to 50% on September 18 , 2013, and would have vested as to 50% on March 19 , 2014. 
(17) Calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs by the  closing price ($23.76) of NVIDIA ’s common stock on January 28, 2011, the last 
trading day before the end of our 2011 fiscal year,  as reported by NASDAQ. 
(18) The RSU would have vested as to 25% on September 21 , 2011, and would have vested as to 12.50% every si x months thereafter over the 
next three years such that the RSU would have been fully vested on September 17, 2014. 
(19) The option vested as to 50% of the shares on Decemb er 17, 2010, and vested as to the remaining 50% of the shares on March 17, 2011. 
(20) The option vested as to 33.36% of the shares on Mar ch 18, 2010, and vests as to 8.33% at the end of ea ch quarterly period thereafter such 
that the option will be fully vested on March 18, 2 012. 
(21) The option vested as to 33.36% of the shares on Sep tember 16, 2010, and vests as to 8.33% at the end o f each quarterly period thereafter 
such that the option will be fully vested on Septem ber 16, 2012. 
(22) The option vests as to 25% of the shares on June 17 , 2012, and vests as to the remaining 75% of the sh ares in equal quarterly installments 
over the next nine months such that the option will  be fully vested on March 17, 2013. 
Table of Contents  
   
   
   
O PTION E XERCISES AND S TOCK V ESTED IN F ISCAL Y EAR 2011  
The following table shows information regarding opt ion exercises and stock vested by our named executi ve officers during fiscal year 
2011.  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
56  
(23) The RSU vested as to 33.36% on March 17, 2010, and vests as to 16.66% every six months thereafter over  the next two years such that the 
RSU will be fully vested on March 21, 2012. 
(24) The RSU vested as to 33.36% on September 15, 2010, and vests as to 16.66% every six months thereafter over the next two years such that 
the RSU will be fully vested on September 19, 2012.  
(25) The RSU vests as to 50% on September 19, 2012, and vests as to 50% on March 20, 2013. 
(26) The RSU vests as to 25% on September 21, 2011, and vests as to 12.50% every six months thereafter over  the next three years such that the 
RSU will be fully vested on September 17, 2014. 
     Option Awards      Stock Awards   
Name    
Number of  
Shares  
Acquired on 
Exercise (#)     
Value  
Realized  
on  
Exercise ($)(1)      
Number  of 
Shares  
Acquired on 
Vesting (#)     
Value  
Realized  
on  
Vesting ($)   
Jen -Hsun Huang       1,554,545 (2)      13,413,140         —           —       
David L. White       —           —            —           —       
Ajay K. Puri       —           —            21,384 (4)      315,730 (4)  
David M. Shannon       47,070 (3)      633,531         33,335 (5)      494,697 (5)  
Debora Shoquist       —           —            35,068 (6)      527,580 (6)  
  
(1) The value realized on exercise represents the d ifference between the exercise price per share of t he stock option and the sales price of the 
shares of our common stock. The value realized was determined without considering any taxes that may h ave been owed. The exercise price 
of each stock option was equal to the closing price  of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the d ate of grant. 
(2) The exercise of the stock option and the sale of th e shares acquired during fiscal year 2011 was pursu ant to the terms of a 10b5 -1 Sales Plan 
entered into by Mr. Huang in April 2010. 
(3) The exercise of the stock option and the sale o f the shares acquired during fiscal year 2011 was p ursuant to the terms of a 10b5-1 Sales Plan 
entered into by Mr. Shannon in August 2010. 
(4) The number of shares acquired on vesting includes a n aggregate of 8,010 shares that were withheld to p ay taxes due upon vesting. The value 
realized on vesting represents the number of shares  acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair market value of our common stock as reported 
by NASDAQ on the date of vesting. 
(5) The number of shares acquired on vesting includ es an aggregate of 12,230 shares that were withheld  to pay taxes due upon vesting. The 
value realized on vesting represents the number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair m arket value of our common stock as 
reported by NASDAQ on the date of vesting. 
(6) The number of shares acquired on vesting includes a n aggregate of 13,051 shares that were withheld to pay taxes due upon vesting. The 
value realized on vesting represents the number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair m arket value of our common stock as 
reported by NASDAQ on the date of vesting. 
Table of Contents  
E MPLOYMENT , S EVERANCE AND C HANGE - IN -C ONTROL A GREEMENTS  
Employment Agreements.     Our executives are “at-will” employees and we do not have employment, severance or change-in-contr ol 
agreements with our executive officers, except as d iscussed in Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Elements of Co mpensation—Other 
Benefits Severance and Change -in-Control Agreements with respect to our prior agreement with Mr. White and our current agreement with Mr. 
White discussed below.  
In connection with Mr. White’s resignation as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer eff ective March 17, 2011, we entered 
into a Transition and Consulting Agreement, dated M arch 15, 2011, with Mr. White. Pursuant to the Tran sition and Consulting Agreement, 
Mr. White is expected to remain an NVIDIA employee until May 31, 2011 at his current base salary of $3 5,417 per month. Mr. White will also 
receive a lump sum payment of $128,333. From June 1 , 2011 to August 31, 2011, or the Consulting Period , Mr. White is expected to serve as a 
consultant to us reporting directly to Mr. Huang. M r. White will be paid $35,417 per month during the Consulting Period for his services and we 
will reimburse Mr. White for his COBRA medical prem iums for up to 18 months. In connection with the Tr ansition and Consulting Agreement, 
Mr. White granted NVIDIA a full release of all clai ms related to his employment with NVIDIA. We believ e these benefits and the consulting 
relationship are in the best interest of our stockh olders, as they facilitate the smooth and effective  transition of his duties while retaining the 
institutional knowledge of our principal financial officer while we search for his full time replaceme nt.  
Change-in-Control Agreements.     Our 1998 Plan provides that if we sell all or s ubstantially all of our assets, or we are involved in any 
merger or any consolidation in which we are not the  surviving corporation, or if there is any other ch ange-in-control, all outstanding awards 
under the 1998 Plan held by all employees then prov iding services, including our executive officers, w ill either (a) be assumed or substituted for 
by the surviving entity or (b) if not assumed or su bstituted, the vesting and exercisability of the aw ards will accelerate in full and the awards will 
terminate if they are not exercised prior to the cl osing of the change-in-control.  
Our 2007 Plan provides that in the event of a corpo rate transaction or a change-in-control, outstandin g stock awards may be assumed, 
continued, or substituted by the surviving corporat ion. If the surviving corporation does not assume, continue, or substitute such stock awards, 
then (a) with respect to any stock awards that are held by individuals performing services for NVIDIA immediately prior to the effective time of 
the transaction, the vesting and exercisability pro visions of such stock awards will be accelerated in  full and such stock awards will be 
terminated if not exercised prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in- control, and (b) all other outstanding stock awards  
will be terminated if not exercised on or prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or change-in-control.  
   
57  
Table of Contents  
P OTENTIAL P AYMENTS U PON T ERMINATION OR C HANGE - IN -C ONTROL  
Upon a change-in-control or certain other corporate  transactions of NVIDIA, unvested options and RSUs will fully vest in some cases as 
described above under Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Agreeme nts—Change-in-Control Agreements. The table below shows 
our estimates of the amount of the benefit each of our named executive officers would have received if  the unvested options and RSUs held by 
them as of January 30, 2011 had become fully vested  as a result of a change-in-control. The estimated benefit amount of unvested options was 
calculated by multiplying the number of in-the-mone y unvested options held by the applicable named exe cutive officer by the difference 
between the closing price of our common stock on Ja nuary 28, 2011, the last trading day of fiscal year  2011, as reported by NASDAQ, which 
was $23.76, and the exercise price of the option. T he estimated benefit amount of unvested RSUs was ca lculated by multiplying the number of 
RSUs held by the applicable named executive officer  by the closing price of our common stock on Januar y 28, 2011, the last trading day of fiscal 
year 2011, as reported by NASDAQ, which was $23.76.   
   
   
58  
Name    
Unvested  
In-the-Money 
Options and  
RSUs at  
January 30,  
2011 (#)      
Total  
Estimated Benefit  ($)   
Jen -Hsun Huang       1,807,500         12,954,624    
David L. White       363,125         5,346,563    
Ajay K. Puri       220,783         3,027,233    
David M. Shannon       238,700         3,432,101    
Debora Shoquist       194,502         2,873,255    
Table of Contents  
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT  
The material in this report is not “soliciting mate rial,” is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is no t to be incorporated by reference in 
any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933 , as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 193 4, as amended, other than our Annual 
Report on Form 10 -K, where it shall be deemed to be “furnished,” whe ther made before or after the date hereof and irres pective of any general 
incorporation language in any such filing unless sp ecifically incorporated by reference therein.  
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Director s oversees the compensation programs of NVIDIA on b ehalf of the Board of 
Directors. In fulfilling its oversight responsibili ties, the Compensation Committee reviewed and discu ssed with management the Compensation 
Discussion and Analysis included in this proxy stat ement.  
In reliance on the review and discussions referred to above, the Compensation Committee recommended to  the Board of Directors that the 
Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of NVIDIA for the y ear ended January 30, 2011 and in 
this proxy statement.  
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE  
Mark Stevens, Chairman  
William J. Miller  
Harvey Jones  
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION  
The number of shares issuable upon exercise of outs tanding stock options and RSUs, the weighted-averag e exercise price of outstanding 
stock options, and the number of stock award remain ing for future issuance under each of our equity co mpensation plans as of January 30, 2011 
are summarized as follows:  
   
   
   
   
59  
Plan Category    
Number of  
securities to be  
issued upon exercise 
of outstanding  
options, warrants  
and rights  
(a)      
Weighted -average 
exercise price of  
outstanding  
options, warrants 
and rights  
(b)     
Number of securities  
remaining available for 
future issuance under  
equity compensation  
plans (excluding  
securities reflected in  
column (a))  
(c)   
Equity compensation plans approved by security 
holders (1)       52,679,441       $ 10.12 (2)      65,740,151    
Equity compensation plans not approved by security 
holders (3)       1,933,931       $ 17.30 (2)      —       
                          
Total       54,613,372       $ 10.38 (2)      65,740,151    
       
  
       
  
      
  
  
(1) This row includes our 2007 Plan (which is intended as the successor to and continuation of our 1998 Eq uity Incentive Plan, our 1998 Non -
Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan and our 2000 Nonstatutory Equity Incentive Plan) and our 1998 Em ployee Stock Purchase Plan. Of 
these shares, 31,997,328 shares remained available for the grant of future rights under our 1998 Emplo yee Stock Purchase Plan as of 
January 30, 2011. Under our 1998 Employee Stock Pur chase Plan, participants are permitted to purchase our common stock at a discount on 
certain dates through payroll deductions within a p re -determined purchase period. Accordingly, these numb ers are not determinable. 
(2) Represents the weighted -average exercise price of outstanding stock options  only. 
(3) This row represents the 2000 Nonstatutory Equit y Incentive Plan, the PortalPlayer, Inc. 2004 Stock  Incentive Plan and the PortalPlayer, Inc. 
1999 Stock Option Plan, which are described below. 
Table of Contents  
2000 Nonstatutory Equity Incentive Plan  
The 2000 Nonstatutory Equity Incentive Plan, or the  2000 Plan, provided for the grant of nonstatutory stock options to employees, 
directors, and consultants. The terms and exercise price of awards granted under the 2000 Plan are set  forth in each optionee’s option agreement. 
The term of nonstatutory stock options is either si x or ten years. Grants made after May 8, 2003 gener ally have six year terms. Until February 
2004, options granted to new employees vested over a period of four years, with 25% of the shares vest ing one year from the date of grant and 
the remaining 75% of the shares vesting quarterly o ver the next three years. During this same time per iod, stock options granted to existing 
employees generally would vest each quarter over a four-year period from the date of grant. Beginning in February 2004, new employees’ initial 
options vest quarterly over a three-year period. Gr ants to existing employees in recognition of perfor mance also vest over a three-year period; 
however, the option did not begin vesting until the  second anniversary of the date of grant, after whi ch time the option vests in quarterly 
increments over the remaining one-year period. Gene rally, an option terminates three months after the termination of the optionee’s service to 
NVIDIA. If the termination is due to the optionee ’s disability, the exercise period generally is exte nded to 12 months. If the termination is due to 
the optionee’s death or if the optionee dies within three months  after his or her service terminates, the exercise period generally is extended to 18 
months following death. We no longer make option gr ants from this plan.  
PortalPlayer, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan  
We assumed the PortalPlayer, Inc. 2004 Stock Incent ive Plan, or the 2004 Plan, and all related outstan ding options in connection with our 
acquisition of PortalPlayer, Inc., or PortalPlayer,  in January 2007. The 2004 Plan was adopted by the PortalPlayer stockholders in 2004. Each 
option we assumed in connection with our acquisitio n of PortalPlayer has been converted into the right  to purchase that number of shares of 
NVIDIA common stock determined by multiplying the n umber of shares of PortalPlayer common stock underl ying such option by 0.3601 and 
then rounding down to the nearest whole number of s hares. The exercise price per share for each assume d option has been similarly adjusted by 
dividing the exercise price by 0.3601 and then roun ding up to the nearest whole cent. Vesting schedule s and expiration dates for the assumed 
options did not change. Under the 2004 Plan, option s generally vest as to 25% of the shares one year a fter the date of grant and as to 1/48 of the 
shares each month thereafter and expire ten years f rom the date of grant. We no longer make option gra nts from this plan.  
PortalPlayer, Inc. 1999 Stock Option Plan  
We assumed options issued under the PortalPlayer, I nc. 1999 Stock Option Plan, or the 1999 Plan, when we completed our acquisition of 
PortalPlayer in January 2007. The 1999 Plan was ter minated upon completion of PortalPlayer’s initial public offering of common stock in 2004. 
Each option we assumed in connection with our acqui sition of PortalPlayer has been converted into the right to purchase that number of shares 
of NVIDIA common stock determined by multiplying th e number of shares of PortalPlayer common stock und erlying such option by 0.3601 and 
then rounding down to the nearest whole number of s hares. The exercise price per share for each assume d option has been similarly adjusted by 
dividing the exercise price by 0.3601 and then roun ding up to the nearest whole cent. Vesting schedule s and expiration dates did not change. 
Under the 1999 Plan, options generally vest as to 2 5% of the shares one year after the date of grant a nd as to 1/48 of the shares each month 
thereafter and expire ten years from the date of gr ant.  
   
60  
th 
th 
Table of Contents  
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
R EVIEW OF T RANSACTIONS WITH R ELATED P ERSONS  
It is our policy that all employees, officers and d irectors must avoid any activity that is in conflic t with, or has the appearance of conflicting 
with, our interests. This policy is included in our  Code of Conduct and our Financial Team Code of Con duct. We conduct a review of all related 
party transactions for potential conflict of intere st situations on an ongoing basis and all transacti ons involving executive officers or directors 
must be approved by the Nominating and Corporate Go vernance Committee or another independent body of t he Board. Except as discussed 
below, we did not conduct any transactions with rel ated persons in fiscal year 2011 that would require  disclosure in this proxy statement or 
approval by the Nominating and Corporate Governance  Committee.  
T RANSACTIONS WITH R ELATED P ERSONS  
We have entered into indemnity agreements with our executive officers and directors which provide, amo ng other things, that we will 
indemnify such executive officer or director, under  the circumstances and to the extent provided for t herein, for expenses, damages, judgments, 
fines and settlements he or she may be required to pay in actions or proceedings which he or she is or  may be made a party by reason of his or 
her position as a director, executive officer or ot her agent of NVIDIA, and otherwise to the fullest e xtent permitted under Delaware law and our 
bylaws. We also intend to execute these agreements with our future executive officers and directors.  
See the section above titled Employment, Severance and Change-in-Control Agreeme nts for a description of the terms of our 1998 Plan 
and our 2007 Plan related to a change–in- control of NVIDIA and for a description of the term s of our Transition and Consulting Agreement with 
David L. White, our former Executive Vice President  and Chief Financial Officer.  
See the section above titled Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Elements of Co mpensation—Other Benefits—Severance and Change-
in-Control Agreements for a description of our prior agreement with Mr. W hite.  
We have granted stock options to our executive offi cers and our non-employee directors. See the sectio ns above titled Executive 
Compensation and Director Compensation .  
S ECTION  16( A ) B ENEFICIAL O WNERSHIP R EPORTING C OMPLIANCE  
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 193 4, as amended, requires our executive officers, dir ectors and persons who own more 
than 10% of a registered class of our equity securi ties to file initial reports of ownership and repor ts of changes in ownership of our common 
stock and other equity securities with the SEC. Exe cutive officers, directors and greater than 10% sto ckholders are required by SEC regulations 
to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) form s they file.  
To our knowledge, based solely on a review of the c opies of such reports furnished to us and written r epresentations that no other reports 
were required, during the fiscal year 2011, all Sec tion 16(a) filing requirements applicable to our ex ecutive officers, directors and greater than 
10% beneficial owners were complied with.  
   
61  
Table of Contents  
O THER M ATTERS  
The Board knows of no other matters that will be pr esented for consideration at the 2011 Annual Meetin g. If any other matters are properly 
brought before the 2011 Annual Meeting, it is the i ntention of the persons named in the accompanying p roxy to vote on such matters in 
accordance with their best judgment.  
   
April 8, 2011  
A COPY OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FI SCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 30, 2011 AS FILED WITH 
THE SEC IS BEING FURNISHED TO STOCKHOLDERS CONCURRE NTLY HEREWITH. STOCKHOLDERS MAY SUBMIT A 
WRITTEN REQUEST FOR AN ADDITIONAL COPY OF THE ANNUA L REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 
ENDED JANUARY 30, 2011 TO: INVESTOR RELATIONS, NVID IA CORPORATION, 2701 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY, SANTA 
CLARA, CALIFORNIA 95050. WE WILL ALSO FURNISH A COP Y OF ANY EXHIBIT TO THE FORM 10-K IF SPECIFICALLY 
REQUESTED IN WRITING.  
NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are either registered tr ademarks or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the  United States and other countries. 
Other company names used in this publication are fo r identification purposes only and may be trademark s of their respective companies.  
   
62  
By Order of the Board of Directors 
  
David M. Shannon  
Secretary  

Table of Contents  
A PPENDIX A 
CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT  
OF  
AMENDED AND RESTATED  
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION  
OF  
NVIDIA CORPORATION  
(a Delaware corporation)  
NVIDIA C ORPORATION , a Delaware corporation (the “Corporation”), does hereby certify:  
First: The name of the Corporation is NVIDIA C ORPORATION .  
Second: The date on which the Corporation’s original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State is 
February 24, 1998 under the name of NVIDIA Delaware  Corporation.  
Third: The Board of Directors of the Corporation, acting i n accordance with Section 242 of the General Corpor ation Law of the State of 
Delaware, adopted resolutions to amend Section 2 of  Paragraph A of Article V of the Amended and Restat ed Certificate of Incorporation of the 
Corporation to read in its entirety as follows:  
“2. Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph, the Board of Directors is and shall remain divi ded into three classes, with the 
directors in each class serving for a term expiring  at the third annual meeting of stockholders held a fter their election. Subject to the rights 
of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumst ances, the terms of the members of the 
Board of Directors shall be as follows: (i) at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2012, the directors whose terms expire at that 
meeting or such directors’ successors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annua l meeting of stockholders to be held in 
2013; (ii) at the annual meeting of stockholders to  be held in 2013, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting or such directors’ 
successors shall be elected to hold office for a te rm expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders t o be held in 2014; and (iii) at the annual 
meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014 and at e ach annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold 
office for a term expiring at the next annual meeti ng of stockholders. The classification of the Board  of Directors shall terminate at the 
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2014 a nd all directors shall be elected in accordance wit h clause (iii) above.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Ar ticle, each director shall serve until his successo r is duly elected and qualified or 
until his death, resignation or removal. No decreas e in the number of directors constituting the Board  of Directors shall shorten the term of 
any incumbent director.”  
Fourth: Thereafter pursuant to a resolution of the Board of  Directors this Certificate of Amendment was submit ted to the stockholders of 
the Corporation for their approval, and was duly ad opted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the 
State of Delaware.  
Fifth: All other provisions of the Amended and Restated Ce rtificate of Incorporation shall remain in full for ce and effect.  
   
A-1  
Table of Contents  
I N W ITNESS W HEREOF , NVIDIA C ORPORATION has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be sign ed by its President and Chief 
Executive Officer and attested to by its Secretary in Santa Clara, California this      day of                     , 2011.  
   
   
   
A-2  
NVIDIA C ORPORATION 
    
Jen -Hsun Huang 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
A TTEST : 
    
David M. Shannon 
Secretary 
Table of Contents  
  
Directions to Our Headquarters—Building E  
FROM HIGHWAY 101  
Take the San Tomas/Montague Exit  
Follow the sign to San Tomas Expressway  
Stay on San Tomas for less than a mile to Walsh Ave nue  
Turn left onto Walsh Avenue  
Continue on Walsh Avenue to the stoplight at Scott Boulevard  
Turn left onto Scott Boulevard  
2800 Scott Boulevard is the first office building o n the left  
Turn left into 2800 Scott Boulevard  
FROM INTERSTATE 280  
Take the Saratoga Ave/Saratoga Exit towards Santa C lara  
Stay on Saratoga Avenue for about 1 mile  
Turn left onto San Tomas Expressway and drive for a pproximately 3 miles to Walsh Avenue  
Turn right onto Walsh Avenue  
Continue on Walsh Avenue to the stoplight at Scott Boulevard  
Turn left onto Scott Boulevard  
2800 Scott Boulevard is the first office building o n the left  
Turn left into 2800 Scott Boulevard  

Table of Contents  
  
   INVESTOR RELATIONS  2701 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY SANTA CLARA, CA 95050  VOTE BY INTERNET  Before The Meeting — Go to www.proxyvote.com  Use the Internet to transmit your voting instructions and for electronic delivery of information up un til 11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on May 17, 201 1. Have your proxy card in hand when you access the web site and follow the instructions  to obtain your records and to create an electronic  voting instruction form.  During The Meeting — Go to www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011  You may attend the Meeting via the Internet and vot e during the Meeting. Have the information that is printed in the box marked by the arrow available an d follow the instructions.  VOTE BY PHONE — 1-800 -690 -6903  Use any touch -tone telephone to transmit your voting instructions up until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on May 1 7, 2011. Have your proxy card in hand when you call  and then follow the instructions.  VOTE BY MAIL  Mark, sign and date your proxy card and return it i n the postage -paid envelope we have provided or return it to Vote Processing, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgew ood, NY 11717.  TO VOTE, MARK BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS:  M33306 -P10165  KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS  THIS PROXY CARD IS VALID ONLY WHEN SIGNED AND DATED .  DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY  NVIDIA CORPORATION  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR all the Nominees:  1. Election of Directors  Nominees:  1a. Harvey C. Jones  1b. William J. Miller  For Withhold Abstain  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposals:  2. To amend our Certificate of Incorporation to dec lassify the board of directors such that all direct ors are elected on an annual basis by 2014.  For Against Abstain  3. An advisory vote on executive compensation.  The Board of Directors recommends you vote for a 1 YEAR frequency:  4. An advisory vote on the frequency of holding an advisory vote on executive compensation.  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposal:  For Against Abstain  5. To ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounti ng firm for our fiscal year ending January 29, 2012 .  NOTE: Such other business as may properly come befo re the meeting or any adjournment thereof.  Please sign exactly as your name(s) appear(s) hereo n. When signing as attorney, executor, administrato r, or other fiduciary, please give full title as such. Joint owners should each sign personally. All holders must sign. If a corporation or partnership, please sign in full corporate or p artnership name, by authorized officer.  Signature [PLEASE SIGN WITHIN BOX] Date  Signature (Joint Owners) Date  INVESTOR RELATIONS  2701 SAN TOMAS EXPRESSWAY SANTA CLARA, CA 95050  VOTE BY INTERNET  Before The Meeting — Go to www.proxyvote.com  Use the Internet to transmit your voting instructions and for electronic delivery of information up un til 11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on May 17, 201 1. Have your proxy card in hand when you access the web site and follow the instructions  to obtain your records and to create an electronic  voting instruction form.  During The Meeting — Go to www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/NVIDIA2011  You may attend the Meeting via the Internet and vot e during the Meeting. Have the information that is printed in the box marked by the arrow available an d follow the instructions.  VOTE BY PHONE — 1-800 -690 -6903  Use any touch -tone telephone to transmit your voting instructions up until 11:59 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on May 1 7, 2011. Have your proxy card in hand when you call  and then follow the instructions.  VOTE BY MAIL  Mark, sign and date your proxy card and return it i n the postage -paid envelope we have provided or return it to Vote Processing, c/o Broadridge, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgew ood, NY 11717.  TO VOTE, MARK BLOCKS BELOW IN BLUE OR BLACK INK AS FOLLOWS:  M33306 -P10165  KEEP THIS PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS  THIS PROXY CARD IS VALID ONLY WHEN SIGNED AND DATED .  DETACH AND RETURN THIS PORTION ONLY  NVIDIA CORPORATION  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR all the Nominees:  1. Election of Directors  Nominees:  1a. Harvey C. Jones  1b. William J. Miller  For Withhold Abstain  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposals:  2. To amend our Certificate of Incorporation to dec lassify the board of directors such that all direct ors are elected on an annual basis by 2014.  For Against Abstain  3. An advisory vote on executive compensation.  The Board of Directors recommends you vote for a 1 YEAR frequency:  4. An advisory vote on the frequency of holding an advisory vote on executive compensation.  The Board of Directors recommends you vote FOR the following proposal:  For Against Abstain  5. To ratify the selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounti ng firm for our fiscal year ending January 29, 2012 .  NOTE: Such other business as may properly come befo re the meeting or any adjournment thereof.  Please sign exactly as your name(s) appear(s) hereo n. When signing as attorney, executor, administrato r, or other fiduciary, please give full title as such. Joint owners should each sign personally. All holders must sign. If a corporation or partnership, please sign in full corporate or p artnership name, by authorized officer.  Signature [PLEASE SIGN WITHIN BOX] Date  Signature (Joint Owners) Date  
1     Year 2 Years 3 Years Abstain  1     Year 2 Years 3 Years Abstain  
Table of Contents  
  
   Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Annual Meeting:  The Notice and Proxy Statement, Annual Report and L etter to Stockholders are available at www.proxyvot e.com.  M33307 -P10165  NVIDIA CORPORATION  THIS PROXY IS SOLICITED ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF D IRECTORS  ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS  May 18, 2011  The stockholder(s) hereby appoint(s) Jen -Hsun Huang and David M. Shannon, or either of them,  as proxies, each with the power to appoint his sub stitute, and hereby authorizes them to represent and to vote, as designated on the reverse side of this ballot, all of the shares of Common S tock of NVIDIA CORPORATION that the stockholder(s) is/are entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting of Stockholder(s) to be held at 9:00  a.m. PDT on May 18, 2011 at Building E of our head quarters located at 2800 Scott Boulevard, Santa Cla ra, California 95050, and any adjournment or postponement thereof.  The shares represented by this proxy when properly executed will be voted in the manner directed by th e stockholder(s). If no such directions are indicat ed, the Proxies will have the authority to vote FOR each of the nominees listed in Proposal  1, FOR proposals 2, 3 and 5 and for a 1 YEAR frequ ency (proposal 4).  In their discretion, the Proxies are authorized to vote upon such other business as may properly come before the meeting.  Please mark, sign and return this proxy card prompt ly using the enclosed reply envelope.  Continued and to be signed on reverse side  
