2025
ANNUAL REPORT TO  
SHAREHOLDERS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Years ended December 31 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Operating Income (loss)
Net income (loss) for common stock by segment
 Income (loss) from continuing operations for common stock
 Income (loss) from discontinued operations1
Net income (loss) for common stock
Diluted earnings (loss) per share
Net Income (loss) by segment
 Electric Utility
 Other
Income (loss) from continuing operations for common stock
Core2 income from continuing operations for common stock
Continuing operations – Diluted earnings (loss) per common share
Continuing operations – Core2 diluted earnings per common share
Core2 income from discontinued operations for common stock
Discontinued operations – Diluted earnings (loss) per common share
Discontinued operations – Core2 diluted earnings per common share
Common shares (in millions)
 December 31
 Weighted-average-basic
 Weighted-average-diluted
2025
$235
123
– 
123
$0.71
168
(45) 
123
149
$0.71
$0.86
–
–
–
172.6
172.6
173.0
2024
($1,707)
(1,323)
(103)
(1,426)
($11.23)
(1,226)
(96)
(1,323)
124
($10.42)
$0.98
79
($0.81)
$0.63
172.5
126.9
126.9
2023
$275
146
53
199
$1.81
194
(48)
146
152
$1.33
$1.38
73
$0.48
$0.66
110.2
109.7
110.0
Discontinued operations include the results of American Savings Bank’s (ASB) operations through the date of the sale and the loss on the sale of ASB.
Measures described as “Core” are non-GAAP measures. See the “Explanation of HEI’s Use of Certain Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures” and the related 
GAAP reconciliation in Appendix B.
Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. is a subsidiary of HEI. As a holding company, HEI does not sell products or services and therefore is not regulated by  
the state Public Utilities Commission.
Note: Columns may not foot due to rounding.
1
2
Hawaiian Electric Industries
2025 Annual Report Letter to 
Shareholders from Scott Seu
FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS
ALOHA MAI K Ā KOU ,
At HEI and our primary subsidiary Hawaiian Electric, our work has always been about more than just providing 
essential services; it is about caring for the islands we all call home. In 2025, we moved forward with a singular 
focus of fulfilling our commitments to the people of Hawai‘i while strengthening the foundation of our enterprise  
for the generations to follow. It was a year defined by hard-earned progress and a continued drive toward  
long-term resilience.
As we share this report, we have reached a critical milestone for our company and our community.  
I am encouraged to share that we have now resolved the Maui wildfire tort litigation settlement.  
With the resolution of key appeals, we are moving forward with the vital process of beginning  
payments to those affected. This is a fundamental step in our collective healing and a  
reaffirmation of our company’s enduring commitment to the recovery of Maui.
STRENGTHENING OUR FOUNDATIONS
Our utility team has worked with urgency to reduce wildfire risk and harden the power grids across our islands, 
deploying approximately $200 million in wildfire mitigation investments since the Maui wildfires. In 2025, we 
achieved many of our operational safety objectives ahead of schedule. Guided by our three-year, $480-million 
Wildfire Safety Strategy, which was approved by the State of Hawai‘i Public Utilities Commission in late  
December, we have replaced and upgraded critical infrastructure, deployed cutting-edge AI-assisted video  
cameras to provide real-time situational awareness and implemented a Public Safety Power Shutoff program  
to help prevent wildfires when high-risk conditions exist. These are just a few examples of the many actions we 
have taken to mitigate wildfire risk across the state.
We also continued to lead our state’s transition to a clean energy future, reaching a 37% renewable portfolio  
standard in 2025. We remain firmly on track to meet our 40% statutory requirement by 2030, ensuring that  
we continue to do our part to ensure Hawai‘i can reach its 2045 100% renewable energy goal by building a  
more sustainable and reliable grid.
STABILITY AND INNOVATION
From a fiscal perspective, 2025 was a year of stabilization and disciplined management. HEI generated  
consolidated net income of $123. 1 million, or $0.71 per share. Our Core net income, which reflects our  
fundamental operations by excluding Maui wildfire expenses and expenses related to the strategic decision  
to wind down Pacific Current, stood at $149.3 million, or $0.86 per share. We have maintained strong liquidity  
of $1.6 billion as of year-end, providing the flexibility required to honor our settlement obligations while  
continuing to invest in the critical infrastructure our islands depend on.
We are also pioneering an alternative process for rebasing utility rates in collaboration with community partners. 
This innovative approach aims to evolve our Performance-based Regulation (PBR) framework to better align  
with customer interests and state policy, emphasizing affordability and transparency. This will remain a central 
focus as we look ahead toward the commencement of the second multiyear rate period under PBR, especially 
given the elevated capital investment cycle projected over the next few years.
UNWAVERING COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITY
Hawaiian Electric exists to serve Hawai‘i, and our commitment to our neighbors remained steadfast  
throughout 2025. Despite the significant investments required for safety and resilience, we took pride  
in keeping typical residential customer bills stable, especially as average electricity rates for many  
mainland U.S. utilities increased significantly. Affordability will continue to be a core focus as we move forward, 
particularly as we face affordability headwinds brought on by geopolitical conflict.
Our dedication to our community is best seen in the actions of our employees and the resources we  
direct toward those in need. HEI was proud to support a number of initiatives, which included:
 • Kōkua Energy Credit Program: We pledged $1 million to provide direct bill assistance to families  
    facing financial hardship.
 • Corporate Giving: We provided over $777,000 in donations and sponsorships to local nonprofits 
    that form the backbone of our community safety net.
 • Employee Volunteerism: Our team participated in over 9,296 hours of community service and  
    raised over $361,000 for the 2025 Aloha United Way campaigns.
THE PATH AHEAD
The road before us is still demanding, but my optimism is rooted in the quiet resilience I see in our team  
every day and the enduring strength of the communities we are privileged to serve. We are no longer simply  
navigating a crisis; we are working together to build a safer, more sustainable future for the place we all  
care for deeply — our home, Hawai‘i.
This sense of continuity extends to our HEI leadership team. At the start of this year, we saw an executive  
transition that reflects the deep bench of talent within our ‘ohana. Scott DeGhetto, who joined us as Chief  
Financial Officer (CFO) in the challenging days following the 2023 wildfires, is transitioning to a consulting role. 
Scott was a key team member who led us through the most difficult period in our company's history, and I am 
personally grateful for his expert guidance and leadership.
At the same time, we are pleased to welcome back Paul Ito to the role of HEI’s CFO. Having previously  
served in this position, Paul’s deep experience and local insights will be invaluable as we continue to evolve  
as an organization.
Importantly, I would also like to express my heartfelt appreciation to Admiral Tom Fargo USN (Ret.), who is
stepping off the HEI Board this year. Tom was first elected to the HEI Board in 2005 and has served as our Board 
Chairman since 2020. I could not have asked for a better board chair than Tom to help me navigate HEI 
through some of the biggest challenges in its corporate history. I greatly valued Tom’s steady and clear guidance, 
and mahalo him for all that he has done for our company and community.
As a result of the divestitures of American Savings Bank and Pacific Current, HEI has entered a new chapter as a 
holding company solely focused on one business—its electric utility, Hawaiian Electric. With our state regulators’ 
recent approval of changes that allow for a unified management team and shared board membership across HEI 
and Hawaiian Electric, we will be aligning our governance structure with our streamlined business model. We 
believe the company is now better positioned than ever to address the complex challenges facing our company
We know that trust is never given — it is earned, especially during seasons of profound change. On behalf of the 
thousands of our employees who serve our islands, thank you for standing with us as we work toward a brighter, 
more sustainable tomorrow.
Me ka aloha pumehana — with my warm regards,
Scott W. H. Seu 
President and Chief Executive Officer
and our state.
(This page has been left blank intentionally.)
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc.
2025 Annual Report to Shareholders
(This page has been left blank intentionally.)
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D. C. 20549
FORM 10-K 
  
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025 
OR
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Exact Name of Registrant Commission I.R.S. Employer
as Specified in Its Charter File Number Identification No.
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. 1-8503 99-0208097
Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. 1-4955 99-0040500
State of Hawaii 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
1001 Bishop Street, Suite 2900, Honolulu, Hawaii  96813 - Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI)
1099 Alakea Street, Suite 2200, Honolulu, Hawaii  96813 - Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. (Hawaiian Electric)
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:
 (808) 543-5662 - HEI
(808) 543-7771 - Hawaiian Electric
Not applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Registrant
 
Title of each class
 
Trading Symbol
Name of each exchange
on which registered
Hawaiian Electric 
Industries, Inc.
 
Common Stock, Without Par Value
 
HE New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
Registrant Title of each class
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. None
Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Common Stock, par value 
$6-2/3 per share
  
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☒ No ☐  Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☒
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☒ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☒
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been 
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☒ No ☐  Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☒ No ☐
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to 
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to submit such files). 
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☒ No ☐  Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting 
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” 
and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Hawaiian Electric 
Industries, Inc.:  
Hawaiian Electric 
Company, Inc.:
Large accelerated filer ☒ Smaller reporting company ☐ Large accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Accelerated filer ☐ Emerging growth company ☐ Accelerated filer ☐ Emerging growth company ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☒
 
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying 
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☐ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its 
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public 
accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. ☒ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. ☐
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant 
included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. ☐ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based 
compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant 
to §240.10D-1(b). 
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. ☐ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☒ Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. Yes ☐ No ☒
 
Aggregate market value of the voting and 
non-voting common equity held by 
non-affiliates of the registrants as of
Number of shares of common stock
 outstanding of the registrants as of
 June 30, 2025 June 30, 2025 February 17, 2026
Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. 
(Without Par Value)
$1,834,863,997 172,611,853 172,620,476
Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. 
($6-2/3 Par Value)
None 17,854,278 17,854,278
 
HAWAIIAN ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC. MEETS THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN GENERAL 
INSTRUCTIONS (I)(1)(a) AND (b) OF FORM 10-K AND IS THEREFORE FILING THIS FORM WITH THE 
REDUCED DISCLOSURE FORMAT.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Selected sections of Proxy Statement of HEI for the 2026 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed-Part III
 
 
This combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. and Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. 
Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant is filed by each registrant on its own behalf. Hawaiian Electric 
makes no representations as to any information not relating to it or its subsidiaries.
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  
Page
  
Glossary of Terms ii
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements v
 
PART I
  
Item 1. Business 1
Item 1A. Risk Factors 14
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26
Item 1C. Cybersecurity 26
Item 2. Properties 27
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28
Information About Our Executive Officers (HEI) 28
 
PART II
  
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities 29
Item 6. [Reserved] 29
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 152
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 152
Item 9B. Other Information 153
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 153
 
PART III 
  
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 154
Item 11. Executive Compensation 154
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters 155
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 155
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 156
  
 
PART IV
  
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 156
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 156
Signatures 167
 
i
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Defined below are certain terms used in this report:
ABL Facility Asset-based lending facility
ABOs Accumulated benefit obligations
ABR Alternate Base Rate
AES Hawaii AES Hawaii, Inc.
AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction
AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
APBO Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
ARA Annual revenue adjustment
AROs Asset retirement obligations
ASB American Savings Bank, F.S.B., previously a wholly owned subsidiary of ASB Hawaii Inc. On December 
31, 2024, American Savings Bank, F.S.B. was sold.
ASB Hawaii ASB Hawaii, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. and previously the 
parent company of American Savings Bank, F.S.B. On December 31, 2024, American Savings Bank, 
F.S.B. was sold.
ASC Accounting Standards Codification
ASU Accounting Standards Update
ATR Affiliate transaction requirements
BESS Battery Energy Storage System
Btu British thermal unit
CBRE Community-based renewable energy
CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
Company When used in Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. sections and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, “Company” refers to Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. and its direct and indirect 
subsidiaries, including, without limitation, Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries (listed 
under Hawaiian Electric); ASB Hawaii, Inc.; GLST1, LLC; and Pacific Current, LLC and its 
subsidiaries (listed under Pacific Current). On December 31, 2024, American Savings Bank, F.S.B. was 
sold.
When used in Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. sections, “Company” refers to Hawaiian Electric 
Company, Inc. and its direct subsidiaries.
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
HEI’s or Hawaiian Electric’s Consolidated Financial Statements, including notes, in Item 8 of this Form 
10-K
Consumer Advocate Division of Consumer Advocacy, Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs of the State of Hawaii
CSSM Collective Shared Savings Mechanism
D&O Decision and order from the PUC
DBF State of Hawaii Department of Budget and Finance
DER Distributed energy resources
DRIP HEI Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
ECRC Energy cost recovery clause
EIP 2010 Equity and Incentive Plan, as amended
EO Executive Order
EPA Environmental Protection Agency - federal
EPRM Exceptional Project Recovery Mechanism
EPS Earnings per share
ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
ERL Environmental Response Law of the State of Hawaii
ERP/EAM Enterprise Resource Planning/Enterprise Asset Management
ESM Earnings Sharing Mechanism
Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934
FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board
federal U.S. Government
FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc.
GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
GHG Greenhouse gas
Terms Definitions
ii
GLST1 GLST1, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. 
GWh Gigawatt-hour/s (as applicable)
Hamakua Energy Hamakua Energy, LLC, previously an indirect subsidiary of Pacific Current. On March 10, 2025, 
Hamakua Holdings, LLC was sold and as a result, its wholly owned subsidiary, Hamakua Energy, LLC 
is no longer owned by Pacific Current as of such closing.
Hamakua Holdings Hamakua Holdings, LLC, previously a direct subsidiary of Pacific Current and parent company of 
Hamakua Energy, LLC and HAESP, LLC. On March 10, 2025, Hamakua Holdings, LLC was sold. 
Hawaii Electric Light Hawaii Electric Light Company, Inc., an electric utility subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
Hawaiian Electric Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., an electric utility subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. and 
parent company of Hawaii Electric Light Company, Inc., Maui Electric Company, Limited, Renewable 
Hawaii, Inc. and HE AR INTER LLC
Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K
HE AR BRWR HE AR BRWR LLC, a direct subsidiary of HE AR INTER LLC
HE AR INTER HE AR INTER LLC, a direct subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., and parent company of HE 
AR BRWR LLC
HEI Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc., direct parent company of Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., ASB 
Hawaii, Inc., GLST1, LLC, and Pacific Current, LLC. 
HEI’s 2026 Proxy Statement Selected sections of Proxy Statement for the 2026 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Hawaiian Electric 
Industries, Inc. to be filed after the date of this Form 10-K and not later than 120 days after December 
31, 2025, which are incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference
HEI’s MD&A Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc.’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K
HEIRSP Hawaiian Electric Industries Retirement Savings Plan
HPOWER City and County of Honolulu with respect to a power purchase agreement for a refuse-fired plant
HSFO High sulfur fuel oil
IIJA Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
IPP Independent power producer
Kaʻieʻie W aho Kaʻieʻie Waho Company, LLC, a former subsidiary of Pacific Current
Kalaeloa Kalaeloa Partners, L.P.
kW Kilowatt/s (as applicable)
kWh Kilowatt-hour/s (as applicable)
LSFO Low sulfur fuel oil
LTIP Long-term incentive plan
Mahipapa Mahipapa, LLC, a subsidiary of Pacific Current
Maui Electric Maui Electric Company, Limited, an electric utility subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
Maui windstorm and 
wildfires
The fires in the West Maui (Lahaina) and Upcountry Maui areas that caused fatalities and widespread 
property damage in Lahaina on August 8, 2023
Mauo Mauo, LLC, a former subsidiary of Pacific Current
MBtu Million British thermal unit
MD&A Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Moody’s Moody’s Investors Service’s
MPIR Major Project Interim Recovery
MRP Multi-year rate period
MW Megawatt/s (as applicable)
MWh Megawatt-hour/s (as applicable)
NA Not applicable
NPBC Net periodic benefits costs
NPPC Net periodic pension costs
O&M Other operation and maintenance
OPEB Postretirement benefits other than pension
Pacific Current Pacific Current, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of HEI and parent company of  Kaʻaipuaʻa, LLC,  
Mahipapa, LLC and Pacific Current, Solar and Storage Holding Company, LLC. On March 10, 2025, 
Hamakua Holdings, LLC was sold. In June 2025, all of Pacific Current’s membership interests in 
Mauo, LLC, Alenuihaha Developments, LLC, Kaʻieʻie Waho Company, LLC, and Upena, LLC were 
transferred to PC Opco. On August 1, 2025, PC Opco was sold.
Terms Definitions
GLOSSARY OF TERMS (continued)
iii
PC Holdco Pacific Current, Solar and Storage Holding Company, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific Current 
and parent company of PC Opco.
PC Opco Pacific Current, Solar and Storage Operating Company, LLC, previously a wholly owned subsidiary of 
PC Holdco. In June 2025, Pacific Current transferred all of the outstanding membership interests in 
Mauo, LLC, Alenuihaha Developments, LLC, Kaʻieʻie Waho Company, LLC and Upena, LLC to PC 
Opco. On August 1, 2025, PC Opco was sold.
PBO Projected benefit obligation
PBR Performance-based regulation
PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls
PGV Puna Geothermal Venture
PIMs Performance incentive mechanisms
PPA Power purchase agreement
PPAC Purchased power adjustment clause
PSPS Public Safety Power Shutoff
PUC Public Utilities Commission of the State of Hawaii
PURPA Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
PV Photovoltaic
QF Qualifying Facility under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978
RAM Revenue adjustment mechanism
RBA Revenue balancing account
Registrant Each of Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. and Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
RFPs Request for proposals
RHI Renewable Hawaii, Inc., a wholly owned nonregulated subsidiary of Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.
ROACE Return on average common equity
RORB Return on rate base
RPS Renewable portfolio standards
S&P S&P Global Ratings
SAIDI System Average Interruption Duration Index
SAIFI System Average Interruption Frequency Index
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
See Means the referenced material is incorporated by reference (or means refer to the referenced section in 
this document or the referenced exhibit or other document)
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
SPRBs Special Purpose Revenue Bonds
SSM Shared Savings Mechanism
Stage 1 Request for proposal process to procure renewable projects governed by the PUC in February 2018
Stage 2 Request for proposal process to procure renewable projects governed by the PUC in August 2019
state State of Hawaii
Tax Act 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1, An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018)
ULSD Ultra-low sulfur diesel
Utilities Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., Hawaii Electric Light Company, Inc. and Maui Electric Company, 
Limited
VIE Variable interest entity
WMP Wildfire Mitigation Plan
WSS Wildfire Safety Strategy
Terms Definitions
GLOSSARY OF TERMS (continued)
iv
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report and other presentations made by Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI) and Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc. 
(Hawaiian Electric) and their subsidiaries contain “forward-looking statements,” which include statements that are predictive in 
nature, depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and usually include words such as “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” 
“intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “predicts,” “estimates” or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future 
financial performance, ongoing business strategies or prospects or possible future actions are also forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks, 
uncertainties and the accuracy of assumptions concerning HEI and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company), the performance 
of the industries in which they do business and economic, political and market factors, among other things. These forward-
looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results and financial condition may differ materially 
from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
Risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in 
forward-looking statements and from historical results include, but are not limited to, the following:
• the potential for further trade policy changes under the current administration could disrupt our supply chains and increase 
costs, e.g., the Utilities’ capital goods and equipment purchases and those of its independent power producers (IPPs) that 
contain components, sub-components, or raw materials sources from outside the U.S. could experience increases in costs, 
which could threaten the viability of projects and impact our ability to meet customer demand and the Utilities’ ability to 
achieve renewable portfolio standards (RPS) goals;
• the impact of the Maui windstorm and wildfires, including liabilities in excess of settlement amounts and potential regulatory 
penalties, which may result in significant costs that may be unrecoverable (or not reimbursed on a timely basis) through 
insurance and/or rates;
• an increase in insurance premiums and the inability to fully recover premiums through rates or the potential inability to obtain 
wildfire and general liability insurance coverage at reasonable rates, if available at all;
• the ability to raise the amount of capital necessary on reasonable terms, if at all, for the Company’s and the Utilities’ 
contribution to the Maui wildfire tort litigation settlement in order to alleviate future conditions that may cause substantial 
doubt about HEI’s and the Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern;
• potential further dilution to existing shareholders if the Company raises funds by issuing additional equity or equity-linked 
securities; 
• the inability to execute financing plans to alleviate future conditions that may cause substantial doubt about HEI’s and the 
Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern prior to the issuance of their respective annual financial statements, which 
could result in an event of default and an acceleration of the Company’s and the Utilities’ debt and lead to filing for 
bankruptcy protection if waivers from lenders are not received;
• extreme weather events, including windstorms and other natural disasters, particularly those driven or exacerbated by 
evolving climate dynamics, which could increase the risk of the Utilities’ equipment being damaged, becoming inoperable or 
contributing to a wildfire;
• future suspension, material reduction or extended delay in dividends or other distributions from operating subsidiaries to HEI; 
• further downgrades by securities rating agencies in their ratings of the securities of HEI and Hawaiian Electric and their 
impact on results of financing efforts;
• the risks of suffering losses and incurring liabilities that are uninsured (e.g., damages to the Utilities’ transmission and 
distribution system and losses from business interruption) or underinsured (e.g., losses not covered as a result of insurance 
deductibles or other exclusions or exceeding policy limits), and the risks associated with the operation of transmission and 
distribution assets and power generation facilities, including public and employee safety issues, and assets causing or 
contributing to wildfires; 
• international, national and local economic and political conditions—including the state of the Hawaii tourism, defense and 
construction industries; the strength or weakness of the Hawaii and continental U.S. real estate markets; decisions concerning 
the extent of the presence of the federal government and military in Hawaii; the implications and potential impacts of federal 
government shutdowns, including the impact to the Utilities’ customers’ ability to pay their electric bills and the impact on 
the State of Hawaii economy; the implications and potential impacts of U.S. and foreign capital and credit market conditions 
and federal, state and international responses to those conditions; the potential impacts of global and local developments 
(including global economic conditions and uncertainties, unrest, terrorist acts, wars, conflicts, political protests, deadly virus 
epidemic or other crisis); the effects of changes that have or may occur in U.S. policy, such as with respect to immigration 
and trade; and pandemics;
• the ability to adequately address risks and capitalize on opportunities related to the Company’s and the Utilities’ 
sustainability priority areas, which include safety, reliability and resilience, including relating to wildfires and other extreme 
weather events, decarbonization, economic health and affordability, secure digitalization, human capital management, 
employee engagement, and climate-related risks and opportunities;
• citizen activism, including civil unrest, especially in times of severe economic depression and heightened social and political 
divisions, which could negatively impact customers and employees, impair the ability of the Company and the Utilities to 
operate and maintain their facilities in an effective and safe manner, and citizen or stakeholder activism that could delay the 
v
construction, increase project costs or preclude the completion of third-party or Utility projects that are required to meet 
electricity demand, resilience and reliability objectives and RPS and other climate-related goals;
• the effects of actions or inaction of the U.S. government or related agencies, including those related to the U.S. debt ceiling or 
budget funding, monetary policy, trade policy, energy and environmental policy, and other policy and regulatory changes 
advanced or proposed by the current administration;
• weather, natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, lightning strikes, lava flows and the effects of evolving 
climate dynamics, such as more severe storms, flooding, droughts, heat waves, and rising sea levels) and wildfires, including 
their impact on the resilience and reliability and cost of the Company’s and Utilities’ operations, and the economy;
• the timing, speed and extent of changes in interest rates and the shape of the yield curve, which could result in higher 
borrowing costs and changes in market liquidity;
• the continued ability of the Company and the Utilities to access the credit and capital markets to fund necessary investments 
and expenditures (e.g., to obtain short-term and long-term debt financing, including lines of credit, and, in the case of HEI, to 
issue common stock) under volatile and challenging market conditions, and the potential higher cost of such financings, if 
available, and due to the uncertainties associated with the costs related to the Maui windstorm and wildfires;
• the risks inherent in changes in the value of the Company’s pension and other retirement plan assets, and the risks inherent in 
changes in the value of the Company’s pension liabilities, including changes driven by stock market values, interest rates and 
mortality improvements;
• changes in laws, regulations (including tax regulations), market conditions, interest rates and other factors that result in 
changes in assumptions used to calculate retirement benefits costs and funding requirements;
• the potential delay by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of Hawaii (PUC) in considering (and potential disapproval 
of actual or proposed) proposals related to wildfire safety, renewable energy or grid resiliency, among others, and related 
costs; reliance by the Utilities on outside parties such as the State, IPPs and developers; supply-chain challenges; and 
uncertainties surrounding technologies, solar power, wind power, biofuels, liquefied natural gas, environmental assessments 
required to meet RPS and other climate-related goals; the impacts of implementation of the wildfire mitigation, renewable 
energy and resilience proposals on future costs of electricity and potential penalties imposed by the PUC for delays in the 
commercial operations of renewable energy projects;
• the ability of the Utilities to develop, execute and recover the implementation costs of the Utilities’ action plans included in 
their Integrated Grid Plan, which was accepted by the PUC in 2024, due to the recent issuance of the PUC’s 2024 Inclinations 
on the Future of Energy in Hawaii, Governor Josh Green’s Executive Order No. 25-01, Accelerating Hawaii’s Transition 
Toward 100 Percent Renewable Energy, and the Hawaii State Energy Office’s Alternative Fuel, Repowering and Energy 
Transition Study on the aforementioned plans of the Utilities;
• the ability of the Utilities to recover undepreciated cost of fossil fuel generating units, if they are required to be retired before 
the end of their expected useful life;
• capacity and supply constraints or difficulties, especially if generating units (utility-owned or IPP-owned) fail or measures 
such as demand-side management, distributed generation, combined heat and power or other firm capacity supply-side 
resources fall short of achieving their forecasted benefits or are otherwise insufficient to reduce or meet peak demand;
• high and/or volatile fuel prices, which increases working capital requirements and customer bills, or delivery of adequate fuel 
by suppliers (including as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war and conflicts in the Middle East), which could affect the 
reliability of utility operations, and the continued availability to the Utilities of their energy cost recovery clauses (ECRCs);
• the continued availability to the Utilities or modifications of other cost recovery mechanisms, including the purchased power 
adjustment clauses (PPACs), annual revenue adjustment (ARA) and pension and postretirement benefits other than pensions 
(OPEB) tracking mechanisms, and the continued decoupling of revenues from sales to mitigate the effects of declining 
kilowatt-hour sales;
• the ability of the Utilities to recover increasing or additional costs (e.g., due to trade policies imposed by the current 
administration or other factors impacting prices) and earn a reasonable return on capital investments not covered by the ARA, 
while providing the customer dividend required by performance-based regulation (PBR);
• the impact from the PUC’s modification of the PBR for the Utilities pursuant to Act 005, Session Laws 2018, including the 
potential changes to existing and/or addition of new performance incentive mechanisms (PIMs), third-party proposals 
adopted by the PUC, and the implications of not achieving performance incentive goals;
• the impact of fuel price levels and volatility on customer satisfaction and political and regulatory support for the Utilities; 
• unfavorable changes in economic conditions, such as sustained inflation, higher interest rates or recession, that negatively 
impact the ability of the Company’s customers to pay their utility bills and increase operating costs of the Utilities that cannot 
be passed on to, or recovered, from customers;
• the risks associated with increasing reliance on renewable energy, including the availability and cost of non-fossil fuel 
supplies for renewable energy generation and the operational impacts and related cost impacts of adding intermittent sources 
of renewable energy to the electric grid;
• the growing risk that energy production from renewable generating resources may be curtailed and the interconnection of 
additional resources will be constrained as more generating resources are added to the Utilities’ electric systems and as 
customers reduce their energy usage;
• the ability of IPPs to deliver the firm capacity anticipated in their power purchase agreements (PPAs); 
• the potential that, as IPP contracts near the end of their terms, there may be less economic incentive for the IPPs to make 
investments in their units to ensure the availability of their units;
vi
• the ability of the Utilities to negotiate, periodically, favorable agreements for significant resources such as fuel supply 
contracts and collective bargaining agreements and avoid or mitigate labor disputes and work stoppages;
• new technological developments that could affect the operations and prospects of the Utilities or their competitors such as the 
commercial development of energy storage and microgrids;
• the potential that cyber or physical security incidents, including potential incidents at HEI, its subsidiaries (including at 
electric utility plants), third-party service providers, contractors and customers with whom they have shared data (IPPs, 
distributed energy resources aggregators and customers enrolled under distributed energy resources programs) and incidents 
at data processing centers used, to the extent not prevented by physical and cybersecurity protections, could result in 
operational disruption; the misappropriation or loss of confidential or proprietary assets, information or data, including 
customer, employee, financial, or operating system information, or intellectual property; corruption of data; or potential costs, 
lost revenues, litigation, or reputational harm;
• failure to achieve remaining cost savings commitment related to the management audit recommendations of $6.6 million per 
year during the multi-year rate period (MRP) from June 2021 to May 2026, and continuing until the second MRP begins; 
• federal, state, county and international governmental and regulatory actions, such as existing, new and changes in laws, 
rules and regulations applicable to HEI and the Utilities (including changes in taxation and tax rates, increases in capital 
requirements, regulatory policy changes, environmental laws and regulations (including resulting compliance costs and risks 
of fines and penalties and/or liabilities), the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, governmental fees and assessments, and 
potential carbon pricing or “cap and trade” legislation that may fundamentally alter costs to produce electricity and accelerate 
the move to renewable generation);
• the impact from the PUC’s implementation of wheeling for the Utilities, including cost shifting and customer equity 
considerations, the potential increased competition, and other legal and technical implications, pursuant to Act 266, which 
authorizes wheeling of renewable energy and requires the PUC to establish associated policies and procedures;
• developments in laws, regulations and policies governing protections for historic, archaeological and cultural sites, and plant 
and animal species and habitats, as well as developments in the implementation and enforcement of such laws, regulations 
and policies;
• discovery of conditions that may be attributable to historical chemical releases, including any necessary investigation and 
remediation, and any associated enforcement, litigation or regulatory oversight;
• decisions by the PUC in rate cases and other proceedings (including the risks of delays in the timing of decisions, adverse 
changes in final decisions from interim decisions and the disallowance of project costs as a result of adverse regulatory audit 
reports or otherwise);
• decisions by the PUC and by other agencies and courts on land use, environmental and other permitting issues (such as 
required corrective actions, restrictions and penalties that may arise, such as with respect to environmental conditions or 
RPS);
• the risks associated with the geographic concentration of HEI’s businesses;
• changes in accounting principles applicable to HEI and its subsidiaries, including the adoption of new U.S. accounting 
standards, the potential discontinuance of regulatory accounting related to PBR or other regulatory changes, the effects of 
potentially required consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs), or required finance lease or on-balance-sheet operating 
lease accounting for PPAs with IPPs;
• the final outcome of tax positions taken by HEI and its subsidiaries;
• the ability to effectively utilize federal and state net operating loss carryforwards;
• the ability to service the non-recourse debt of Mahipapa, LLC, the last remaining operating subsidiary of Pacific Current, 
LLC, a non-regulated subsidiary of the Company, if the Company is unable to complete the sale of Mahipapa, LLC;
• the Company’s reliance on third parties and the risk of their non-performance; and
• other risks or uncertainties described elsewhere in this report (e.g., Item 1A. Risk Factors) and in other reports previously and 
subsequently filed by HEI and/or Hawaiian Electric with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the report, presentation or filing in which they are made. Except to 
the extent required by the federal securities laws, HEI, Hawaiian Electric, Pacific Current and their subsidiaries undertake no 
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise.
vii
(This page has been left blank intentionally.)
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
HEI Consolidated
HEI and subsidiaries and lines of business.  HEI is a holding company with its subsidiaries principally engaged in electric 
utility and non-regulated renewable/sustainable infrastructure businesses operating in the State of Hawaii. As a holding 
company, HEI’s sources of funds are primarily dividends from its Electric utility operating subsidiaries, borrowings, and sales 
of equity. The rights of HEI and its creditors and shareholders to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of HEI’s 
subsidiaries are subject to the prior claims of the creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of HEI in its 
capacity as a creditor are recognized as primary. The abilities of certain of HEI’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other 
distributions to HEI are subject to contractual and regulatory restrictions (see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). HEI is headquartered in Honolulu, Hawaii and has one reportable segment: Electric utility. HEI and its other 
subsidiaries which are not reportable segments are grouped and reported as an “All Other” non-reportable segment.
Electric utility.  Hawaiian Electric and its operating utility subsidiaries, Hawaii Electric Light Company, Inc. (Hawaii 
Electric Light) and Maui Electric Company, Limited (Maui Electric), are regulated electric public utilities that provide essential 
electric service to approximately 95% of Hawaii’s population through the operation of five separate grids that serve 
communities on the islands of Oahu, Hawaii, Maui, Lanai and Molokai. See also “Electric utility” section below. 
All Other.  The All Other non-reportable segment is composed of HEI’s corporate-level operating, general and 
administrative expenses and the results of Pacific Current, LLC (Pacific Current). Pacific Current was formed in September 
2017 to focus on investing in non-regulated clean energy and sustainable infrastructure in the State of Hawaii to help reach the 
state’s sustainability goals. Subsequent to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, HEI and Pacific Current have suspended new 
investments and undertook a comprehensive review of strategic options for the assets of Pacific Current. As part of HEI’s 
comprehensive review of strategic options for Pacific Current, all investments of Pacific Current that were made through its 
subsidiaries were sold in 2025, except for Mahipapa, its remaining operating subsidiary which is in the process of being sold. 
See also “Electric utility—Hawaii Electric Light firm capacity PPAs” section below and Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for additional information on Pacific Current activities. The All Other segment also includes ASB Hawaii, Inc. 
(ASB Hawaii) (a holding company), which previously owned ASB, and 40% interest in GLST1, an entity created for the 
specific purpose of holding HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s first liability installment payment pursuant to the settlement 
agreements to settle the tort-related claims in the litigation arising out of the Maui windstorm and wildfires.
Additional information.  Prior to December 31, 2024, ASB Hawaii owned ASB, a federally chartered, full-service Hawaii 
community bank. ASB was a reportable segment of HEI, until its sale on December 31, 2024. For additional information about 
HEI, see HEI’s MD&A, HEI’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and HEI’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
The Company’s website address is www.hei.com, where annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, 
current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports (last 10 years) are made available free of charge in the 
Investor Relations section as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the 
SEC (and available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov). The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by 
reference in this annual report on Form 10-K unless, and except to the extent, specifically incorporated herein by reference. HEI 
and Hawaiian Electric intend to continue to use HEI’s website as a means of disclosing additional information. Accordingly, 
investors should routinely monitor such portions of HEI’s website, in addition to following HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s press 
releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. Investors may also wish to refer to the PUC website at 
hpuc.my.site.com/cdms/s/ in order to review documents filed with and issued by the PUC. No information at the PUC website 
is incorporated herein by reference, and the Company has no control over its accuracy or completeness.
Regulation.  HEI and Hawaiian Electric are each holding companies within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding 
Company Act of 2005 and implementing regulations, which requires holding companies and their subsidiaries to grant the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) access to books and records relating to FERC’s jurisdictional rates. FERC 
granted HEI and Hawaiian Electric a waiver from its record retention, accounting and reporting requirements, effective 
May 2006.
HEI is subject to an agreement entered into with the PUC (the PUC Agreement) which, among other things, requires PUC 
approval of any change in control of HEI. The PUC Agreement also requires HEI to provide the PUC with periodic financial 
information and other reports concerning intercompany transactions and other matters. It also prohibits the Utilities from 
loaning funds to HEI or its nonutility subsidiaries and from redeeming common stock of the electric utility subsidiaries without 
PUC approval. Further, the PUC could limit the ability of the electric utility subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common 
stock. See also Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Electric utility—Regulation” below. 
1
In October 2021, Pacific Current requested informal guidance from the PUC regarding application of the affiliate 
transaction requirements (ATRs) to certain investments. In response, in January 2022, the PUC issued guidance (Order No. 
38186, Docket No. 2018-0065) providing that, if Pacific Current acquires or invests in an unaffiliated entity that has been 
awarded a power purchase agreement with the Utilities through the Stage 1 or 2 Request for proposals (RFPs), such entity 
would become an “Affiliate” or “Affiliate-Related Entity” under the ATRs, and any wholesale power transactions between the 
entity and the Utilities, including under the awarded power purchase agreement, would require PUC review and approval. 
Subsequent to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, HEI and Pacific Current have suspended any new investments while 
undertaking a comprehensive review of strategic options for certain assets of Pacific Current.
Beginning in 2024 and continuing into 2026, HEI has embarked on a strategy to divest all of its affiliated companies other 
than the Utilities, intending for the Utilities to be HEI’s sole operating companies. On December 30, 2024, HEI, ASB and ASB 
Hawaii entered into investment agreements to sell 90.1% of the common stock of ASB to various investors, including certain 
ASB officers and directors of ASB, while retaining 9.9% of the common stock of ASB. The sale transaction closed on 
December 31, 2024. HEI and ASB Hawaii no longer have a controlling interest in ASB and are no longer subject to applicable 
federal and state regulation and supervision (including under the Federal Reserve Board and Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency).
As part of HEI’s comprehensive review of strategic options for certain assets of Pacific Current, on March 10, 2025, 
Pacific Current closed on the sale of Hamakua Holdings, LLC (Hamakua Holdings), a then wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific 
Current, to an unaffiliated third party for cash consideration (Hamakua Sale). Hamakua Holdings had two wholly owned 
subsidiaries: Hamakua Energy, which owned a 60-MW combined cycle power plant that sells power to Hawaii Electric Light 
under an existing power purchase agreement, and HAESP, LLC (created in connection with the current on-going Stage 3 RFP 
process).
In addition, effective August 1, 2025, HEI closed on the sale of its solar and BESS assets to an unaffiliated third party for 
cash consideration (Solar Asset Disposition). The Solar Asset Disposition was completed through the sale of the membership 
interests in Pacific Current, Solar and Storage Operating Company, LLC (PC Opco), a then newly created indirect subsidiary of 
Pacific Current, which owned all of the membership interest of Pacific Current’s solar and BESS project companies: Mauo, 
LLC, Kaʻieʻie Waho Company, LLC, Upena, LLC and Alenuihaha Developments, LLC (Project Companies). As a result of the 
Solar Asset Disposition, effective as of August 1, 2025, Pacific Current no longer owns the Project Companies. Pacific Current 
is currently in the process of selling the membership interest in its remaining operating subsidiary, Mahipapa, LLC.
Pursuant to HEI’s divestiture strategy, on October 31, 2025, HEI and Hawaiian Electric filed a revised request with the 
PUC to terminate or suspend the ATRs. Termination of the ATRs would allow implementation of a corporate integration, under 
which all HEI employees would move to Hawaiian Electric. A few officer positions would manage and operate both HEI and 
Hawaiian Electric (dual-hatted executives) and the HEI and Hawaiian Electric boards of directors would be composed of a 
single set of individuals.  
Environmental regulation.  HEI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal and state statutes and governmental regulations 
pertaining to water quality, air quality and other environmental factors. See the “Environmental regulation” discussion in the 
“Electric utility” section below, and Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Human Capital Resources.  The Company’s workforce and culture are critical to its ability to achieve its business strategies. 
As such, the Company seeks to attract, retain and develop a talented workforce and create a high-performing, inclusive and 
safety-driven culture. 
Employees.  The Company had total and full-time employees as follows:
December 31 2025 2024 2023
Total Full-time Total Full-time Total Full-time
employees employees employees employees employees employees
HEI1  53  51  69  69  75  75 
Hawaiian Electric and its subsidiaries  2,622  2,608  2,533  2,518  2,654  2,564 
ASB2  —  —  —  —  977  958 
  2,675  2,659  2,602  2,587  3,706  3,597 
1  Includes consolidated Pacific Current employees. For 2025, 2024, and 2023, HEI corporate had 39, 44, and 45 employees, respectively.
2  Beginning December 31, 2024, as a result of the sale transaction, ASB was no longer a subsidiary of HEI.
The employees of HEI and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, other than the Utilities, are not covered by any collective 
bargaining agreement. The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1260 represents roughly half of the Utilities’ 
workforce covered by a collective bargaining agreement. On January 26, 2024, a new three-year contract was ratified and is in 
2
effect from November 1, 2024 through October 31, 2027. The contract provides for a 3% general wage increase in each year of 
the three-year contract, double time for callouts, and a 1% incentive payment upon achievement of specified objectives. 
Culture of inclusion and belonging.  The Company is committed to fostering an inclusive culture – where all employees 
can thrive, feel a sense of belonging, and contribute at their highest potential. This type of culture supports greater 
collaboration, trust, engagement, excellence and innovation - strengthening problem-solving and decision-making across the 
Company. The Company believes that a workforce enriched by diverse backgrounds, experiences, skills and perspectives is 
essential to effectively serving its customers, communities and stakeholders. Operating exclusively in Hawaii, one of the most 
culturally diverse states in the U.S., the Company also recognizes the value of having employees who understand and reflect the 
unique culture, history and demographics of the communities it serves.
Employee development & training.  To meet the evolving demands of its industries, address the Company’s stakeholder 
needs, attract and retain talent, and effectively execute its strategies, the Company depends on a workforce that is highly skilled 
and adaptable. Accordingly, the Company invests in targeted skill-building opportunities, as well as industry-specific and 
leadership development programs, to support ongoing employee growth and performance. 
Hawaiian Electric provides employees of both Hawaiian Electric and HEI holding company with a wide range of skills and 
professional development opportunities. These include leadership development courses, employee development courses, 
technical training, apprenticeship programs, operational and environmental compliance training, cybersecurity awareness, and 
required safety courses. The Company also offers tailored leadership programs, such as supervisor training designed to help 
new supervisors transition into key operational, administrative, and leadership roles. In addition, leadership and employee 
assessments support improved productivity and workplace effectiveness. Learning and development initiatives are aligned with 
both individual and organizational performance goals and are reinforced through the annual performance evaluation process. 
Ongoing leadership succession planning further ensures the identification and development of successors and high potential 
employees, helping to maintain a strong leadership pipeline.
Safety and health.  As a core value, the Company strives to create workplace environments that prioritize the physical and 
emotional well-being of its employees. For the Utility, safety is of paramount importance due to the inherent risks involved in 
certain aspects of its operations and the critical role the Utility plays in maintaining the electrical grid for the State of Hawaii.
Hawaiian Electric is committed to maintaining a strong safety culture. Due to the intrinsic nature of its operations, safety is 
embedded in Hawaiian Electric’s DNA. Management proactively assumes the responsibility of providing visible leadership and 
strategic direction for the health and safety management system and programs in their area of oversight. This leadership and 
direction are instrumental to building and sustaining a resilient safety culture and drive continual safety improvement. 
Allocating adequate resources to enable seamless implementation of safety programs and holding leaders accountable for the 
implementation of safety programs and resulting health and safety performance are strategic requirements. This commitment is 
reinforced through executive compensation tied to safety performance metrics, such as recordable incidents and lost workdays. 
These measures reward improvements in workplace safety, promote employee well-being, and contribute to long-term cost 
reductions. Hawaiian Electric’s ultimate goal is zero incidents, with every employee taking ownership of their own safety and 
that of their co-workers, contractors, and the public. More information on such targets is available in HEI’s 2026 Proxy 
Statement. 
Beyond safety, Hawaiian Electric fosters a culture of total well-being to support its employees from hire to retire and 
beyond. Hawaiian Electric integrates wellness as a business strategy, offering programs that address emotional, physical, 
occupational, social, spiritual, intellectual, environmental and financial health. These include access to an extensive Employee 
Assistance Program for employees and their family members, participation in various community charity walks, wellness 
related trainings and resources, onsite mental health support, a wide variety of corporate wellness activities, gym and group 
fitness discounts, and financial wellness classes.
Workforce Stability.  The Company’s employees are its greatest asset and the Company strives to create a highly desirable 
place to work.  
Hawaiian Electric seeks to provide compensation and benefits that are comprehensive, market-competitive, and internally 
equitable to attract, engage, and retain highly skilled employees. Hawaiian Electric believes that employee engagement is key to 
creating a desirable, inclusive, rewarding place to work and conducts employee engagement surveys on a regular cycle. 
Hawaiian Electric is expanding its strategic workforce planning initiative to build its workforce to support future transformation 
plans. 
Properties.  HEI leases office space from a nonaffiliated lessor in downtown Honolulu under leases that expire in 
December 2027. Mahipapa, LLC (Mahipapa), a wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific Current, owns a 7.5-MW biomass facility 
located on approximately 65 acres of land and leases 3,500 acres on the island of Kauai. See “Electric utility” section for a 
description of properties owned and leased.
3
Electric utility
Hawaiian Electric and subsidiaries and service areas.  Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric (Utilities) 
are regulated operating electric public utilities engaged in the production, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of 
electricity on the islands of Oahu; Hawaii; and Maui, Lanai and Molokai, respectively. All of Hawaiian Electric’s equity 
securities are directly owned by HEI.
 In 2025, the Utilities’ revenues and net income amounted to approximately 99% and 137% respectively, of HEI’s 
consolidated revenues and income from continuing operations. In 2024, the Utilities’ revenues and net loss amounted to 
approximately 100% and 93% respectively, of HEI’s consolidated revenues and loss from continuing operations. In 2023, the 
Utilities’ revenues and net income amounted to approximately 99% and 133%, respectively, of HEI’s consolidated revenues 
and income from continuing operations. 
The islands of Oahu, Hawaii, Maui, Lanai and Molokai have a combined population estimated at 1.4 million, or 
approximately 95% of the total population of the State of Hawaii, and comprise a service area of approximately 5,800 square 
miles. The principal communities served include Honolulu (on Oahu), Hilo and Kona (on Hawaii) and Wailuku and Kahului 
(on Maui). The service areas also include numerous suburban communities, resorts, U.S. Armed Forces installations and 
agricultural operations. In November 2020, the PUC approved Hawaiian Electric’s acquisition of the electric distribution 
systems serving 12 U.S. Army installations on Oahu, including Schofield Barracks, Wheeler Army Airfield, Tripler Army 
Medical Center, Fort Shafter and Army housing areas. 
The State has granted Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric nonexclusive franchises, which authorize 
the Utilities to construct, operate and maintain facilities over and under public streets and sidewalks. Each of these franchises 
will continue in effect for an indefinite period of time until forfeited, altered, amended or repealed.
Climate action plan.  In 2021, the Utilities set an aggressive goal to cut carbon emissions from power generation 70% by 2030, 
compared with 2005 levels. The emissions covered by this goal include stack emissions from generation owned by Hawaiian 
Electric and independent power producers (IPPs) who sell electricity to the Utilities. In addition, the Utilities have committed to 
achieving net zero carbon emissions from power generation by 2045 or sooner. 
Key elements of the 2030 plan to reduce emissions include:
• The closing of the state’s last coal plant, which occurred in September 2022 upon expiry of the PPA
• Adding nearly 50,000 rooftop solar systems, more than a 50% increase, compared to the approximately 90,000 systems 
online in 2021 when the climate action plan was developed
• Retiring at least six fossil-fueled generating units and significantly reducing the use of others as new renewable 
resources come online
• Adding additional renewable energy projects capable of generating a total of at least 1 gigawatt beyond resources in 
place in 2021, including shared solar (community-based renewable energy)
• Using more grid-scale and customer-owned energy storage
• Expanding geothermal resources
• Creating innovative programs that provide customers incentives for using clean, lower-cost energy at certain times of 
the day and using less fossil-fueled energy at night
Since the time the 2030 goal was established, delays and cancellations in the commercial operation of new renewable third-
party generation resources and higher costs as a result of supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures, as well as federal 
policies related to solar panel imports, have slowed the pace of progress toward reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The 
downgrade of Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings after the Maui windstorm and wildfires, which makes it more difficult for 
independent power producers to procure low-cost financing, has added an additional impediment to completion of new 
renewable energy and storage projects. Further, the recent repealing of the investment tax credit for renewables is also expected 
to impact the ability to procure new generation at reasonable rates. As a result of these challenges, the Utilities expect the 
planned 70% reduction in carbon emissions to be achieved later than the original 2030 target date. However, the Utilities will 
continue to replace significant amounts of fossil fuel generation with renewable energy between now and 2030 and expect to 
meet or exceed the State of Hawaii’s RPS goals. As of December 31, 2025, the Utilities estimate a reduction of carbon 
emissions of approximately 25%. This represented an increase in emissions compared to the 27% reduction in 2024 due to 
higher customer electric usage. As renewable energy replaces fossil fuel generation, carbon emissions are expected to continue 
to decline over time.
After 2030, progress on elimination of carbon from power generation assumes continued use of proven resources, 
including wind, solar, geothermal, hydroelectric, biofuels and energy storage, along with the development of new and existing 
technologies. Those technologies may include offshore wind, green hydrogen, wave energy and carbon-capture—all currently 
4
under development around the world—as well as other solutions that will emerge. A diverse portfolio of resources will also 
enhance resilience to climate-related events.
Sales of electricity.
Years ended December 31 2025 2024 2023
(dollars in thousands)
Customer 
accounts*
Electric sales 
revenues
Customer 
accounts*
Electric sales 
revenues
Customer 
accounts*
Electric sales 
revenues
Hawaiian Electric  310,789 $ 2,139,817  310,336 $ 2,246,646  309,631 $ 2,324,044 
Hawaii Electric Light  91,234  452,018  90,522  475,556  89,477  458,157 
Maui Electric  72,218  431,963  71,678  434,810  72,497  443,017 
  474,241 $ 3,023,798  472,536 $ 3,157,012  471,605 $ 3,225,218 
* As of December 31.
Regulatory mechanisms.  Base electric rates are set in rate cases, and on April 29, 2020, the PUC issued an order 
terminating the mandatory triennial rate case cycle in anticipation of the performance-based regulation framework (PBR 
Framework). The regulatory framework in effect in 2020 included a number of mechanisms designed to provide utility financial 
stability during the transition toward the state’s 100% renewable energy goals. For example, under the sales decoupling 
mechanism, the Utilities are allowed to recover from customers, the PUC-approved target revenues, independent of the level of 
kilowatt-hour (kWh) sales. The decoupling mechanism (i.e., the Revenue Balancing Account) continues under the PBR 
Framework.
On December 23, 2020, the PUC issued a D&O in Phase 2 of the PBR proceeding, establishing the PBR Framework for 
the Utilities. The PBR Framework includes, among other matters, a five-year multi-year rate plan with an index-driven annual 
revenue adjustment (ARA), which replaces the RAM, modification of the MPIR mechanism (renamed Exceptional Project 
Recovery Mechanism (EPRM)) to include deferred and operation and maintenance (O&M) expense projects and to permit the 
Utilities to include the full amount of approved costs in the EPRM for recovery in the first year the project goes into service, 
pro-rated for the portion of the year the project is in service, and continuation of (i) the revenue balancing account, (ii) the 
pension and other postretirement benefit tracking mechanisms, and (iii) energy cost recovery clause, purchased power 
adjustment clause, and other recovery mechanisms. See “Commitments and contingencies-Regulatory proceedings-
Performance-based regulation framework” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
5
These regulatory mechanisms are summarized as follows:
Mechanism Description
Sales decoupling Provides predictable revenue stream by fixing net revenues at the level approved in last rate case plus the PUC-
approved adjustments (revenues not linked to kWh sales).
Annual Revenue 
Adjustment (ARA)
Annually adjusts revenue levels during a Multi-Year Rate Period, determined by formula which includes an 
inflation factor, a predetermined productivity adjustment (currently set at zero), adjustments for exceptional 
circumstances not in the Utilities’ control and a customer dividend component. The ARA replaced the Revenue 
Adjustment Mechanism (RAM) effective June 1, 2021.
Demand-Side 
Management 
Mechanism
Allows for recovery of costs related to demand side management programs not included in base rates, including 
recovery of incentive payments for the Utilities’ Scheduled Dispatch Program and Bring Your Own Device 
Program.
Exceptional Project 
Recovery Mechanism 
(EPRM)
Reduces regulatory lag and permits recovery of revenues for net costs of approved eligible projects placed in 
service during the Multi-Year Rate Period through the revenue balancing account (RBA) that is not provided for 
by other effective tariffs, the ARA, Performance Incentive Mechanism (PIMs) or Shared Savings Mechanisms 
(SSMs). The EPRM was formerly known as the Major Project Interim Recovery (MPIR) adjustment 
mechanism.
Energy cost recovery 
clause (ECRC) and 
purchased power 
adjustment clause 
(PPAC)
Allows for timely recovery of fuel and purchased power costs to reduce earnings volatility. Symmetrical fossil 
fuel cost risk-sharing (98% customer/2% utility) mechanism established for Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric 
Light and Maui Electric capped at $2.5 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million annually, respectively.
Performance 
incentive mechanism 
(PIM) / Shared 
Savings Mechanism 
(SSM)
Annually adjusts revenue to recover from or credit customers for specific areas of the Utilities’ performance 
measured against the PUC’s approved targets. Adding a portfolio of SSMs and new PIMs is intended to 
encourage acceleration in renewables, grid services, interconnection of DERs, low-to-moderate income energy 
efficiency, advanced metering infrastructure, generation-based reliability (penalties only), interconnection of 
utility scale renewable projects, and cost control of non-ARA costs and allow for financial rewards for 
exemplary performance.
Pension and other 
post-employment 
benefit trackers
Allows tracking of pension and other post-employment benefit costs and contributions above or below the cost 
included in rates in a separate regulatory asset/liability account.
Renewable energy 
infrastructure 
program
Permits recovery of renewable energy infrastructure projects through a surcharge.
Pilot Process Fosters innovation by establishing an expedited implementation process for pilots that test new technologies, 
programs, business models and other arrangements and allows for timely cost recovery of annual expenditures 
of approved pilot projects through an adjustment to target revenues. Proposed pilots are subject to PUC 
approval with a total annual cap of $10 million.
Earnings Sharing 
Mechanism (ESM)
Protects the Utilities and customers from excessive earnings or losses, as measured by the Utilities’ achieved 
rate making ROACE; reflecting a symmetrical ESM for achieved rate making ROACE outside of a 300 basis 
points dead band above or below the current authorized ROACE of 9.5% for each of the Utilities (i.e., above 
12.5% or below 6.5%). 
Seasonality.  kWh sales of the Utilities follow a seasonal pattern, but they do not experience extreme seasonal variations 
experienced by some electric utilities on the U.S. mainland. In Hawaii, kWh sales tend to increase in the warmer, more humid 
months as a result of increased demand for air conditioning and higher visitor arrivals. This is partially offset by the reduction 
of sales due to privately owned customer photovoltaic (PV) systems which generate the most energy during the aforementioned 
warmer months.
Significant customers.  The Utilities derived approximately 11%, 11% and 12% of their operating revenues in 2025, 2024 
and 2023, respectively from the sale of electricity to various federal government agencies. Hawaiian Electric continues to work 
with various federal agencies to implement measures that will help them achieve their energy efficiency, resilience and clean 
energy objectives.
6
Selected consolidated electric utility operating statistics.
Years ended December 31 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
MWh sales (thousands)      
Residential  2,357.5  2,295.4  2,342.1  2,415.2  2,491.6 
Commercial  2,634.0  2,597.8  2,586.7  2,628.8  2,572.5 
Industrial  3,407.6  3,301.3  3,273.5  3,295.7  3,174.3 
Other  24.3  24.4  24.4  14.3  22.7 
  8,423.4  8,218.9  8,226.7  8,354.0  8,261.1 
MWh net generated and purchased (thousands)
Net generated  5,305.3  5,251.6  5,343.0  5,011.9  4,501.0 
Purchased  3,674.0  3,549.1  3,271.2  3,750.4  4,153.7 
  8,979.3  8,800.7  8,614.2  8,762.3  8,654.7 
MWh customer-sited solar (thousands)  1,856.5  1,691.2  1,585.5  1,522.4  1,418.0 
RPS (%)1  36.8  35.8  33.3  31.8  38.4 
Losses and system uses (%)  4.1  6.4  4.2  4.4  4.3 
Energy supply (December 31)
Net generating capability—MW  1,608  1,647  1,739  1,738  1,738 
Firm and other purchased capability—MW 2  369  366  362  362  540 
  1,977  2,013  2,101  2,100  2,278 
Net peak demand—MW 3  1,447  1,424  1,447  1,467  1,471 
Btu per net kWh generated  11,021  11,074  11,102  10,941  10,988 
Average fuel oil cost per MBtu (cents)  1,632.9  1,868.2  2,060.0  2,310.9  1,305.4 
Customer accounts (December 31)
Residential  418,801  417,253  416,072  413,744  414,713 
Commercial  53,937  53,810  54,060  54,416  54,373 
Industrial  739  712  702  696  698 
Other  764  761  771  812  828 
  474,241  472,536  471,605  469,668  470,612 
Electric revenues (thousands)  
Residential $ 983,583 $ 1,011,289 $ 1,028,415 $ 1,069,974 $ 843,655 
Commercial  963,275  1,013,567  1,029,927  1,077,521  802,878 
Industrial  1,067,468  1,122,152  1,156,909  1,211,242  853,293 
Other  9,472  10,004  9,967  7,884  7,780 
 $ 3,023,798 $ 3,157,012 $ 3,225,218 $ 3,366,621 $ 2,507,606 
Average revenue per kWh sold (cents)  35.90  38.41  39.21  40.30  30.35 
Residential  41.72  44.06  43.91  44.30  33.86 
Commercial  36.57  39.02  39.82  40.99  31.21 
Industrial  31.33  33.99  35.34  36.75  26.88 
Other  38.98  41.05  40.79  55.24  34.19 
Residential statistics
Average annual use per customer account (kWh)  5,639  5,512  5,628  5,821  6,022 
Average annual revenue per customer account $ 2,352 $ 2,429 $ 2,471 $ 2,579 $ 2,039 
Average number of customer accounts  418,048  416,402  416,177  414,910  413,725 
1 In July 2022, former Governor Ige signed Act 240 (H.B.2089), which amended the RPS calculation from renewable energy as a percentage 
of sales to renewable energy as a percentage of total generation. The amended RPS calculation results in a lower calculated percentage than 
the amount calculated under the previous methodology. 
2 AES Hawaii provided 180 MW of firm capacity from its coal-fired cogeneration plant. The purchase power agreement expired on September 
1, 2022 and was not renewed. The AES Hawaii coal plant has ceased operations.
3 Sum of the net peak demands on all islands served, noncoincident and nonintegrated.
7
Generation statistics.  The following table contains certain generation statistics as of and for the year ended December 31, 
2025. The net generating and firm purchased capability available for operation at any given time may be more or less than 
shown because of capability restrictions or temporary outages for inspection, maintenance, repairs or unforeseen circumstances.
Hawaiian 
Electric 
Hawaii 
Electric 
Light Maui Electric
 Island of
 Oahu
Island of
 Hawaii
Island of
 Maui
Island of
Lanai
Island of
Molokai Total
Net generating and firm purchased capability 
(MW) as of December 31, 20251
Conventional oil-fired steam units  906.9  50.1  35.9  —  —  992.9 
Diesel internal combustion engine  —  28.3  86.5  9.4  9.8  134.0 
Simple-cycle combustion turbines  230.8  21.0  —  —  2.2  254.0 
Dual train combined-cycle unit  —  56.3  113.6  —  —  169.9 
Biodiesel internal combustion engine  57.4  —  —  —  —  57.4 
Firm contract power2  276.5  92.2  —  —  —  368.7 
 1,471.6  247.9  236.0  9.4  12.0  1,976.9 
Net peak demand (MW)3  1,058.0  183.9  193.4  6.0  5.8  1,447.1 
Reserve margin  39.0%  34.8%  22.1%  56.7%  107.1%  36.6% 
Annual load factor  72.4%  69.5%  63.8%  68.0%  62.2%  70.8% 
MWh net generated and purchased (thousands)  6,712.9  1,118.8  1,080.2  35.7  31.7  8,979.3 
1 Hawaiian Electric units at normal ratings; Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric units at reserve ratings.
2 Nonutility generators - Hawaiian Electric: 208 MW (Kalaeloa Partners, L.P., oil-fired) and 68.5 MW (HPOWER, refuse-fired); Hawaii 
Electric Light: 60 MW (Hamakua Energy, oil-fired) and 34.6 MW (PGV, geothermal). PGV’s current limited capability of 32.2 MW has 
been incorporated into the utility’s firm contract power capability as of December 31, 2025.
3 Noncoincident and nonintegrated.
Generating reliability and reserve margin.  Hawaiian Electric serves the island of Oahu and Hawaii Electric Light serves the 
island of Hawaii. Maui Electric has three separate electrical systems—one each on the islands of Maui, Molokai and Lanai. 
Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric have isolated electrical systems that are not currently interconnected 
to each other or to any other electrical grid and, thus, each maintains a higher level of reserve generation and cost structure than 
is typically carried by interconnected mainland U.S. utilities, which are able to share reserve capacity. These higher levels of 
reserve margins are required to meet peak electric demands, to provide for scheduled maintenance of generating units 
(including the units operated by IPPs relied upon for firm capacity) and to allow for the forced outage of the largest generating 
unit in the system.
Nonutility generation.  The Utilities have supported state and federal energy policies which encourage the development of 
renewable energy sources that reduce the use of fuel oil as well as the development of qualifying facilities. The Utilities’ 
renewable energy sources and potential sources range from wind, solar, photovoltaic, geothermal, wave and hydroelectric 
power to energy produced by municipal waste and other biofuels.
The rate schedules of the Utilities contain ECRCs and PPACs that allow them to recover costs of fuel and purchase power 
expenses. 
In addition to the firm capacity PPAs described below, the Utilities also purchase energy on an as-available basis directly 
from nonutility generators and through its Feed-In Tariff programs, as well as through renewable dispatchable generation power 
purchase agreements. The Utilities also receive renewable energy from customers under its customer-sited Distributed Energy 
Resources programs.
The PUC has allowed rate recovery for the firm capacity and purchased energy costs for the Utilities’ approved firm 
capacity and as-available energy PPAs.
Hawaiian Electric firm capacity PPAs.  Hawaiian Electric currently has two major firm capacity PPAs that provide a total 
of 276.5 MW of firm capacity, representing 19% of Hawaiian Electric’s total net generating and firm purchased capacity on the 
Island of Oahu as of December 31, 2025.
Under the 2021 Amended and Restated PPA with Kalaeloa Partners, L.P. (Kalaeloa), Hawaiian Electric is committed to 
purchase 208 MW of firm capacity. The Kalaeloa facility, which is a Qualifying Facility (QF), is a combined-cycle operation, 
8
consisting of two oil-fired combustion turbines burning low sulfur fuel oil (LSFO) and a steam turbine that utilizes waste heat 
from the combustion turbines. The PPA, among other provisions, extends the term for ten contract years after the effective date. 
The ARPPA was approved on November 23, 2022 and the rates under the ARPPA became effective on January 1, 2023.
Hawaiian Electric also entered into a PPA in March 1986 and a firm capacity amendment in April 1991 with the City and 
County of Honolulu with respect to a refuse-fired plant (HPOWER). Under the PPA, as amended and restated, Hawaiian 
Electric is committed to purchase 68.5 MW of firm capacity annually up until the PPA expires on April 2, 2033.
Hawaii Electric Light firm capacity PPAs.  Hawaii Electric Light has two major firm capacity PPAs that provide a total of 
92.2 MW of firm capacity, representing 37% of Hawaii Electric Light’s total net generating and firm purchased capacity on the 
Island of Hawaii as of December 31, 2025.
In October 1997, Hawaii Electric Light entered into an agreement with Encogen, which was succeeded by Hamakua 
Energy Partners, L. P. (HEP). The agreement requires Hawaii Electric Light to purchase up to 60 MW (net) of firm capacity for 
a period of 30 years, expiring on December 31, 2030. The dual-train combined-cycle facility consists of two oil-fired 
combustion turbines and a steam turbine that utilizes waste heat from the combustion turbines, which primarily burns naphtha 
(a mixture of liquid hydrocarbons) and, starting in late 2019, biodiesel (comprising approximately 40% of HEP’s generation in 
2025). In November 2017, Hamakua Energy, an indirect subsidiary of HEI, purchased the plant from HEP. On February 7, 
2025, the parent company of Hamakua Holdings, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of HEI and parent company of Hamakua Energy, 
entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement to sell all the membership interests in Hamakua Holdings, LLC to an unaffiliated 
third party. The sale closed on March 10, 2025. See “Sale of Hamakua Holdings, LLC” in Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Hawaii Electric Light has a 35-year PPA, as amended, with Puna Geothermal Venture (PGV) for 34.6 MW of firm 
capacity from its geothermal steam facility, which will expire on December 31, 2027. In December 2019, Hawaii Electric Light 
entered into an Amended and Restated PPA (ARPPA) with PGV to, among other things, extend the term by 25 years to 2052 
and expand the firm capacity capable of being delivered to 46 MW. The ARPPA was approved by the PUC subject to certain 
conditions on December 29, 2023.
Maui Electric firm capacity PPAs.  Maui Electric currently has no firm capacity PPAs. 
Fuel oil usage and supply.  The rate schedules of the Utilities include ECRCs under which electric rates (and consequently the 
revenues of the electric utility subsidiaries generally) are adjusted for changes in the weighted-average price paid for fuel oil 
and certain components of purchased power, and the relative amounts of company-generated power and purchased power. See 
discussion of rates and issues relating to the ECRC below under “Rates.”
Hawaiian Electric’s steam generating units consume LSFO and Hawaiian Electric’s combustion turbine peaking units 
consume diesel. Hawaiian Electric’s Schofield Generating Station consumes mostly B99 grade biodiesel, but is permitted to 
also burn ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD).
Hawaii Electric Light’s and Maui Electric’s steam generating units burn high sulfur fuel oil (HSFO) and Hawaii Electric 
Light’s and Maui Electric’s Maui combustion turbine generating units burn diesel. Hawaii Electric Light’s and Maui Electric’s 
Maui, Molokai, and Lanai diesel engine generating units burn ULSD. 
See “Fuel contracts” in Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A.
The following table sets forth the average cost of fuel oil used by Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui 
Electric to generate electricity in 2025, 2024 and 2023: 
Hawaiian Electric Hawaii Electric Light Maui Electric Consolidated
$/Barrel ¢/MBtu $/Barrel ¢/MBtu $/Barrel ¢/MBtu $/Barrel ¢/MBtu
2025  99.08  1,595.2  103.63  1,724.9  104.36  1,753.2  100.40  1,632.9 
2024  114.42  1,839.5  117.55  1,960.3  115.93  1,945.6  115.00  1,868.2 
2023  127.45  2,051.1  124.04  2,063.7  124.86  2,101.1  126.73  2,060.0 
9
The average per-unit cost of fuel oil consumed to generate electricity for Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and 
Maui Electric reflects a different volume mix of fuel types and grades as follows:
Hawaiian Electric Hawaii Electric Light Maui Electric
% LSFO % Biodiesel/Diesel % HSFO % Diesel % HSFO % Diesel
2025  92  8  35  65  24  76 
2024  93  7  32  68  26  74 
2023  92  8  35  65  22  78 
The prices that Hawaiian Electric and Hawaii Electric Light pay for purchased energy from certain older nonutility 
generators are generally linked to the price of oil. The energy prices for Kalaeloa, which purchases LSFO from Par Hawaii 
Refining, LLC (PAR), vary primarily with the price of Asian crude oil. On December 31, 2019, Hawaii Electric Light and PGV 
entered into an Amended and Restated Power Purchase Agreement, which delinks the pricing for energy delivered from the 
facility from fossil fuel prices. Hamakua Energy’s energy prices vary primarily with the cost of naphtha.
The Utilities estimate that 73% of the net energy they generate will come from fossil fuel oil in 2026 compared to 69% in 
2025. Hawaiian Electric generally maintains an average system fuel inventory level equivalent to 47 days of forward 
consumption. Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric generally maintain an average system fuel inventory level equivalent to 
approximately one month’s supply of both HSFO and diesel.
Rates.  Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the PUC with 
respect to rates, issuance of securities, accounting and certain other matters. See “Regulation” below.
General rate increases require the prior approval of the PUC after public and contested case hearings. Rates for Hawaiian 
Electric and its subsidiaries include ECRCs, and PPACs. Under current law and practices, specific and separate PUC approval 
is not required for each rate change pursuant to automatic rate adjustment clauses previously approved by the PUC. Public 
Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) requires the PUC to periodically review the adjustment clauses related to 
energy cost of electric and gas utilities in the state, and such clauses, as well as the rates charged by the utilities generally, are 
subject to change. PUC approval is also required for all surcharges and adjustments before they are reflected in rates.
See “Utility projects” under “Commitments and contingencies” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Competition.  See “Competition” in Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A.
Regulation.  The PUC regulates the rates, issuance of securities, accounting and certain other aspects of the operations of 
Hawaiian Electric and its electric utility subsidiaries. See the previous discussion under “Rates.”
Electrification of Transportation.  In June 2018, the PUC initiated a proceeding to review the Utilities’ Electrification 
of Transportation (EoT) Strategic Roadmap, which provided an economic analysis for light duty electric vehicles on the island 
of Oahu, Maui and Hawaii. In October 2019, the Utilities filed their EoT Workplan, establishing a schedule to continue 
implementation of the EoT roadmap with a focus on Electric Vehicle (EV) rate design and make ready charging infrastructure 
in the near term. The Utilities subsequently filed an update in May 2024, called the EoT Strategic Roadmap 2.0 to reflect 
changes to market conditions since 2018 and identifies potential utility EoT actions through 2030, through input from 
community and industry experts. 
The Utilities followed through on the EoT Workplan, with three filings: the electric bus make ready infrastructure pilot, 
Charge Ready Hawaii commercial infrastructure pilot, and two commercial EV rates, EV-J and EV-P. The Utilities completed 
the 18-month Smart Charge Hawaii Telematics pilot in December 2024. 
The Utilities operate 32 public Direct Charge fast chargers as part of the EV-U and EV-MAUI tariff. On June 26, 2025, the 
PUC issued an order granting the Utilities’ request to make EV-U a regular tariff from a pilot, and modified the allowable 
accounts from 25 to 50.
The Utilities are committed to electrifying 100% of their class 1 vehicles (sedans, SUVs and light trucks) by 2035. As of 
December 31, 2025, 21% of class 1 vehicles are EVs.
Renewable Portfolio Standards.  Hawaii’s RPS law requires electric utilities to meet an RPS of 15%, 30%, 40%, 70% 
and 100% by December 31, 2015, 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2045, respectively, counting only electrical generation using 
renewable energy as a source. In July 2022, former Governor Ige signed Act 240 (H.B.2089), that amended the RPS calculation 
from renewable energy as a percentage of sales to renewable energy as a percentage of total generation. The amended RPS 
calculation results in a lower calculated percentage than the amount calculated under the previous methodology. For example, 
the 2022 RPS achieved under the revised RPS calculation would have been 39.1% under the prior method versus 31.8% under 
the revised method. The change in the definition is to be applied prospectively to future milestone measurements and will 
10
require that the Utilities acquire more renewable energy than under the previous RPS calculation to comply with the RPS 
milestones; however, the Utilities expect to continue to meet the RPS milestones under the amended RPS law to exceed the 
2030 RPS requirement of 40%. The ability of the Utilities to meet RPS milestones after 2030 may be impacted by the Utilities’ 
current credit ratings, which may impact independent power producers’ ability to secure low-cost financing. In 2025, the 
Utilities’ RPS was 36.8%.
Affiliate transactions.  Certain transactions between HEI’s electric public utility subsidiaries (Hawaiian Electric, 
Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric) and HEI and affiliated interests (as defined by statute) are subject to regulation by the 
PUC. 
The PUC issued an order requiring Hawaiian Electric to continue to provide the PUC with annual status reports on its 
compliance with the PUC Agreement (pursuant to which HEI became the holding company of Hawaiian Electric) and to 
present a comprehensive analysis of the impact that the holding company structure and investments in nonutility subsidiaries 
have on a case-by-case basis on the cost of capital to each utility in future rate cases to support Hawaiian Electric’s position that 
its access to capital did not suffer as a result of HEI’s involvement in nonutility activities and that HEI’s diversification did not 
permanently raise or lower the cost of capital incorporated into the rates paid by Hawaiian Electric’s utility customers.
The PUC also established a set of requirements governing transactions and sharing of information between the Utilities and 
its affiliates (Affiliate Transaction Requirements or ATRs), which intended to establish safeguards to avoid potential market 
power benefits and cross-subsidization between regulated and unregulated activities. The requirements include rules on 
interactions with affiliates, information handling, business development, political activities, promotional activities, sales of 
products and services, and employee sharing restrictions. The ATRs include implementing an internal code of conduct, a 
compliance plan, including policies and procedures to comply with the requirements, and having an audit conducted every three 
years that examines the compliance with the requirements. Penalties for non-compliance depend on the severity of the violation, 
and can range from daily fines to divestiture of the Utilities by the holding company. The ATRs also require independent 
compliance audits be conducted every three years, the first of which was completed in 2022 and found no findings of 
noncompliance for the period of December 2018 to December 2021. The PUC accepted the first ATRs audit report while 
ordering certain governance improvement opportunities that the Company implemented in 2023. The second triennial audit 
which reviewed ATRs compliance from January 2022 to December 2024 was completed and had no findings of 
noncompliance. The Utilities submitted the final report to the PUC in October 2025.
In June 2025, the Utilities submitted a request with the PUC to terminate or suspend the ATRs. Beginning in 2024 and 
continuing into 2026, HEI has embarked on a strategy to divest all of its affiliated companies other than the Utilities, intending 
for the Utilities to be HEI’s sole operating companies. Termination of the ATRs would allow implementation of a corporate 
integration, under which all HEI employees would move to Hawaiian Electric. A few officer positions would manage and 
operate both HEI and Hawaiian Electric (dual-hatted executives) and the HEI and Hawaiian Electric boards of directors would 
be composed of a single set of individuals. In September 2025, the PUC dismissed the request without prejudice. In its order, 
the PUC provided guidance on the topics to be addressed in any future request. On October 31, 2025 HEI and Hawaiian 
Electric filed a revised request with the PUC to terminate or suspend the ATRs. After responding to information requests from 
the Consumer Advocate, the Consumer Advocate issued its statement of position on February 4, 2026. The Consumer Advocate 
supported the approval of the request with the condition that before any recovery of expenses related to HEI, the Utilities 
should give the Consumer Advocate and the PUC advance notice of likely changes to recovery. HEI and Hawaiian Electric 
informed the PUC that the docket was ready for decision making on February 5, 2026. 
Other regulations.  The Utilities are not subject to regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act, except under 
Sections 210 through 212 (added by Title II of PURPA and amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992), which permit the 
FERC to order electric utilities to interconnect with qualifying cogenerators and small power producers, and to wheel power to 
other electric utilities. Title I of PURPA, which relates to retail regulatory policies for electric utilities, and Title VII of the 
Energy Policy Act of 1992, which addresses transmission access, also apply to the Utilities. The Utilities are also required to 
file various operational reports with the FERC.
Because they are located in the State of Hawaii, Hawaiian Electric and its subsidiaries are exempt by statute from 
limitations set forth in the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 on the use of petroleum as a primary energy source.
Regulatory Developments. See “Regulatory proceedings” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional 
discussions.
See also “HEI Consolidated–Regulation” above.
Environmental regulation.  Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric, like other utilities, are subject to 
periodic inspections by federal, state and, in some cases, local environmental regulatory agencies, including agencies 
responsible for the regulation of water quality, air quality, hazardous and other waste and hazardous materials. These 
11
inspections may result in the identification of items needing corrective or other action. Except as otherwise disclosed in this 
report (see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, and Notes 1 and 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements), the Utilities believe that 
each subsidiary has appropriately responded to environmental conditions requiring action and that, as a result of such actions, 
such environmental conditions will not have a material adverse effect on the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive 
position of the Utilities.
Water quality controls.  The generating stations, substations and other utility facilities operate under federal and state 
water quality regulations and permits, including, but not limited to, the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge 
Elimination System (governing point source discharges, including wastewater and storm water discharges) and the Safe 
Drinking Water Act Underground Injection Control (regulating disposal of wastewater into the subsurface).
Oil pollution controls.  The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA) establishes programs that govern actual or threatened oil 
releases and imposes strict liability on responsible parties for clean-up costs and damages to natural resources and property. The 
federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under OPA require certain facilities that use or store oil to prepare 
and implement Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (SPCC) Plans in order to prevent releases of oil to navigable 
waters of the U.S. Certain facilities are also required to prepare and implement Facility Response Plans (FRPs) to ensure 
prompt and proper response to releases of oil. The utility facilities that are subject to SPCC Plan and FRP requirements have 
prepared and implemented SPCC Plans and FRPs.
Air quality controls.  The Clean Air Act (CAA) establishes permitting programs to reduce air pollution. The CAA 
amendments of 1990, established the federal Title V Operating Permit Program (in Hawaii known as the Covered Source 
Permit program) to ensure compliance with all applicable federal and state air pollution control requirements. The 1977 CAA 
Amendments established the New Source Review (NSR) permitting program, which affect new or modified generating units by 
requiring a permit to construct under the CAA and the controls necessary to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. 
Title V operating permits have been issued for all of the Utilities’ affected generating units.
Hazardous waste and toxic substances controls.  The operations of the electric utility are subject to EPA regulations 
that implement provisions of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, also known as Superfund), the Superfund Amendments and 
Reauthorization Act (SARA), and the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) as well as equivalent State laws and regulations.
RCRA underground storage tank (UST) regulations require all facilities that use USTs for storing petroleum products to 
comply with established leak detection, spill prevention, standards for tank design and retrofits, financial assurance, operator 
training, and tank decommissioning and closure requirements. All of the Utilities’ USTs currently meet the applicable 
requirements.
The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act under SARA Title III requires the Utilities to report 
potentially hazardous chemicals present in their facilities in order to provide the public with information so that emergency 
procedures can be established to protect the public in the event of hazardous chemical releases. Since January 1, 1998, the 
steam electric industry category has been subject to Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) reporting requirements.
The TSCA regulations specify procedures for the handling and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), a compound 
found in some transformer and capacitor dielectric fluids. The TSCA regulations also apply to responses to releases of PCBs to 
the environment. The Utilities have instituted procedures to monitor compliance with these regulations and have implemented a 
program to identify and replace PCB transformers and capacitors in their systems. 
Hawaii’s Environmental Response Law (ERL), as amended, governs releases of hazardous substances, including oil, to the 
environment in areas within the state’s jurisdiction. Responsible parties under the ERL may be jointly, severally, and strictly 
liable for a release of a hazardous substance. Responsible parties include owners or operators of a facility where a hazardous 
substance is located and any person who at the time of disposal of the hazardous substance owned or operated any facility at 
which such hazardous substance was disposed.
The Utilities periodically discover leaking oil-containing equipment such as USTs, piping, and transformers. Each 
subsidiary reports releases from such equipment when and as required by applicable law and addresses the releases in 
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.
State and Federal Endangered Species Act.  Under the State and Federal Endangered Species Acts species that are 
listed as threatened or endangered are to be protected from harm. Various activities of the Utilities including vegetation 
management, operations, construction, and the presence of infrastructure in sensitive areas may have the potential to affect such 
species. The Utilities have developed best management practices, protocols and in some areas are developing habitat 
conservation plans and obtaining related permits to help protect these species.
12
Additional information.  For additional information about Hawaiian Electric, see Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A, Hawaiian 
Electric’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and Hawaiian Electric’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the Notes thereto. 
Properties.  As of December 31, 2025, the Utilities’ ownership in generating assets was as follows:
Property
Location 
(island) Principal Fuel Type
Generating 
Capacity (MW) Status
Hawaiian Electric:
Waiau1,2 Oahu LSFO / Diesel 388.2 Active
Kahe1 Oahu LSFO 620.5 Active
Campbell Industrial Park (CIP)1 Oahu Diesel 129.0 Active
Honolulu Power Plant1 Oahu N/A — Retired in 2023
Schofield Generating Station3 Oahu Biodiesel / ULSD 49.4 Active
West Loch PV Project4 Oahu Renewable (Solar) 20.0 Active
Hawaii Electric Light5:
Shipman Hawaii N/A — Retired in 2015
Waimea Hawaii ULSD 7.5 Active
Keahole6 Hawaii Diesel / ULSD 77.6 Active
Puna Hawaii HSFO / Diesel 36.7 Active
Hill/Kanoelehua7 Hawaii HSFO / ULSD 55.4 Active
Distributed generators at substation sites8 Hawaii ULSD 3.8 Active
Maui Electric9:
Kahului Maui HSFO 35.9 Active
Maalaea10 Maui Diesel / ULSD 208.4 Active
Miki Basin Lanai ULSD 9.4 Active
Palaau Molokai ULSD 12.0 Active
Distributed generators at substation sites Maui ULSD 3.8 Active
1  The four plants are situated on Hawaiian Electric-owned land having a combined area of 542 acres.
2  Waiau Units 3 and 4 were retired on December 31, 2024.
3  Hawaiian Electric has a 35-year land lease on 8.13 acres, effective September 1, 2016 (with an option to extend an additional 10 years), with the Department 
of the Army.
4  Hawaiian Electric has a 37-year land lease on 102 acres, effective July 1, 2017, with the Secretary of the Navy.
5  The plants are situated on Hawaii Electric Light-owned land having a combined area of approximately 44 acres. The distributed generators are located within 
Hawaii Electric Light-owned substation sites having a combined area of approximately four acres.
6  One of the generators (CT2, 13.8 MW) is currently inactive.
7  One of the generators (CT1, 11.5 MW) is currently inactive.
8  One of the four distributed generators (Panaewa D24, 1.25 MW) was damaged in a substation fire in January 2024.
9  The four plants are situated on Maui Electric-owned land having a combined area of 60.7 acres. The distributed generators are located within Maui Electric-
owned substation sites having a combined area of approximately three acres.
10  One of the generator’s (M11, 12.50 MW) gear train was damaged in April 2025 and was placed on inactive status in January 2026.
13
As of December 31, 2025, the Utilities’ ownership in fuel storage facilities was as follows:
Facility
Location 
(island) Fuel Type
Capacity (barrels 
in thousands) Generation Serviced
Hawaiian Electric:
Barbers Point Tank Farm Oahu LSFO 1,025 Kahe, Waiau
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Oahu LSFO 771 Various
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Oahu Diesel 147 Various
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Oahu Biodiesel 11 Various
Hawaii Electric Light1:
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Hawaii HSFO 57 Various
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Hawaii Diesel 87 Various
Maui Electric2:
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Maui HSFO 84 Various
Generation sites - various (in aggregate) Maui Diesel 109 Various
1  There are an additional 19,249 barrels of diesel and 24,675 barrels of HSFO storage capacity for Hawaii Electric Light-owned fuel off-site at Island Energy 
Services, LLC-owned terminalling facilities.
2  There are an additional 56,358 barrels of diesel oil storage capacity off-site at Aloha Petroleum, Ltd-owned terminalling facilities.
Other properties.  The Utilities own overhead transmission and distribution lines, underground cables, pole (some jointly) 
and metal high voltage towers. Electric lines are located over or under public and nonpublic properties. 
Hawaiian Electric owns a total of 126.5 acres of land on which substations, transformer vaults, distribution baseyards and 
the Kalaeloa cogeneration facility are located. Hawaiian Electric also owns buildings and approximately 11.6 acres of land 
located in Honolulu, which house its operating and engineering departments. It also leases an office building and certain office 
spaces in Honolulu, land for office spaces and storage in Pearl City, and a warehousing center in Kapolei.
Hawaii Electric Light owns 6 acres of land in Kona, which is used for a baseyard, and one acre of land in Hilo, which 
houses its accounting, customer services and administrative offices. Hawaii Electric Light also leases 3.7 acres of land for its 
baseyard in Hilo under a lease expiring in 2030. In addition, Hawaii Electric Light owns a total of approximately 150 acres of 
land, and leases a total of approximately 6 acres of land, on which hydro facilities, substations and switching stations, 
microwave facilities and transmission lines are located. The deeds to the sites located in Hilo contain certain restrictions, but the 
restrictions do not materially interfere with the use of the sites for public utility purposes.
Maui Electric’s administrative offices, as well as its engineering and distribution departments, are situated on 9.1 acres of 
Maui Electric-owned land in Kahului. Maui Electric also owns approximately 20 acres of land which house some of its 
substations, leases approximately 3,600 square feet of land for its telecommunication and microwave facilities, leases 
approximately 6,000 square feet of land at Kahului Harbor for pipeline purposes, and leases 17,958 square feet of land at 
Puunene for the Puunene Substation. Maui Electric also owns approximately 87 acres of vacant land, including land used for 
debris storage, at Waena, Palaau, and Kahului. Fuel storage facilities are located on Maui Electric-owned properties at Kahului 
Baseyard, Kahului Power Plant, Maalaea Power Plant, Miki Basin, Palaau, Hana, and the Kuihelani Substation. Two, 1-MW 
stand-by diesel generators are located within the Maui Electric-owned land at Hana Substation. One, 1.83-MW stand-by diesel 
generator is located within the Maui Electric-owned land at Kuihelani Substation. 
See “Hawaiian Electric and subsidiaries and service areas” above for a discussion of the nonexclusive franchises of 
Hawaiian Electric and subsidiaries. 
See “Generation statistics” above for a further discussion of some of the electric utility properties.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
The businesses of HEI and its subsidiaries involve numerous risks which, if realized, could have a material and adverse 
effect on the Company’s financial statements. For additional information for certain risk factors enumerated below and other 
risks of the Company and its operations, see “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above and HEI’s 
MD&A, HEI’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A and Hawaiian Electric’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market 
Risk.”
14
Holding company and company-wide risks.
Losses resulting from the Maui windstorm and wildfires did and may continue to have a material adverse effect on HEI’s 
and Hawaiian Electric’s financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. On August 8, 2023, a number of 
brush fires in the West Maui (Lahaina) and Upcountry Maui areas caused widespread property damage, including damage to 
property of the Utilities, and 102 confirmed fatalities in Lahaina (the Maui windstorm and wildfires). The Maui Department of 
Fire and Public Safety and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives reports classified the cause of the fire as 
“accidental.” 
Effective November 1, 2024, HEI and Hawaiian Electric entered into the Settlement Agreements (as defined herein) to 
settle the tort-related legal claims in the litigation arising out of the Maui windstorm and wildfires. One of the Settlement 
Agreements, the Class Settlement Agreement (as defined herein) remains subject to final court approval. 
HEI and Hawaiian Electric have agreed to make substantial payments to settle all Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related 
legal claims if all conditions of the Settlement Agreements are satisfied. Under the Settlement Agreements, HEI and Hawaiian 
Electric are obligated to contribute a total of $1.99 billion (out of a total defendant contribution of approximately $4.04 billion), 
which includes the $75 million previously contributed for the One ‘Ohana Initiative (a humanitarian aid fund to provide 
payments outside of litigation to the beneficiaries of those who died, as well as compensation for personal injury damages). The 
total settlement amount is to be divided between two settlement funds, one for the benefit of individual plaintiffs, and the other 
for the benefit of the class plaintiffs. HEI and Hawaiian Electric must pay such remaining amounts in four equal annual 
installments of approximately $479 million, with the first installment expected to be made once the conditions to funding are 
satisfied, which will occur no sooner than early 2026. The Settlement Agreements also provide that $500 million of the total 
settlement payments will be reserved and made available to defendants to defray the cost to resolve any claims brought by 
plaintiffs who do not release claims as part of the settlements.
If all conditions of the Settlement Agreements are satisfied, HEI expects to finance the settlement payments through a mix 
of debt, common equity, equity-linked securities or other potential options. While HEI management believes it will be able to 
raise the capital necessary to finance the settlement payments, there is no assurance that future financing will be available in 
sufficient amounts, on a timely basis or on reasonable terms acceptable to HEI, if at all. 
If HEI’s financing plans are unsuccessful, HEI and Hawaiian Electric may need to consider other strategic alternatives, 
including delaying strategic initiatives, selling assets, or other strategic measures including, without limitation, obtaining relief 
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Such alternatives could adversely affect our financial results or other factors impacting our 
finances, operations or HEI’s stock valuation.
The Settlement Agreements do not resolve claims with insurers who have asserted subrogation claims in separate lawsuits, 
and such insurers are not parties to the Settlement Agreements, but resolution of their claims through an agreement or a final 
unappealable court order is a condition to the defendants’ payment obligations under the Settlement Agreements. Two primary 
subrogation actions have been brought by various insurers covering almost all of the direct subrogation claims. On December 
30, 2025, the court in both actions entered judgment in favor of the defendants, but certain of the plaintiff insurers have now 
appealed those rulings. No briefing schedules in these appeals have been set.
If the conditions of the Settlement Agreements are not satisfied or the agreements are otherwise terminated, HEI and 
Hawaiian Electric intend to vigorously defend against the litigation. There is no assurance that HEI and Hawaiian Electric will 
be successful in the defense of the litigation or that insurance proceeds will be available to fund any potential settlements, 
judgments, or costs associated with the litigation.
There can be no assurance that HEI and Hawaiian Electric will have the liquidity to make the payments required under the 
Settlement Agreements. The amount of any liability arising from the Maui windstorm and wildfires could have a material 
adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity, cash flows and results of operations.
HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s access to lower cost sources of capital will continue to be negatively impacted as a result of 
the downgrades in their debt credit ratings to below investment grade.  In August 2023, HEI and Hawaiian Electric received 
15
multiple downgrades to their debt, including to ratings below investment grade, by Fitch, Moody’s and S&P. As of 
February 17, 2026, the Fitch, Moody’s and S&P ratings of HEI and Hawaiian Electric were as follows:
 Fitch Moody’s S&P
HEI:
Long-term issuer default, long-term corporate family and issuer credit, respectively B+ Ba3 B+
Short-term issuer default, commercial paper and commercial paper, respectively B NP B
Outlook Positive Positive Watch Positive
Hawaiian Electric:
Long-term issuer default, long-term and issuer credit, respectively BB- Ba2 B+
Short-term issuer default, commercial paper and commercial paper, respectively B NP B
Senior unsecured debt/special purpose revenue bonds BB Ba2 *
Cumulative preferred stock (selected series) * WR1 *
Outlook Positive Positive Watch Positive
1 Rating withdrawn due to preferred stock redemption in the fourth quarter of 2025.
* Not rated.
NP - Not Prime
WR - Withdrawn rating
Note: The above ratings reflect only the view, at the time the ratings are issued or affirmed, of the applicable rating agency, from whom an explanation of the 
significance of such ratings may be obtained. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any securities; such ratings may be subject to revision 
or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies; and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Unless and until these debt ratings are upgraded to investment grade, the Company will continue to have restricted access 
to lower cost sources of capital. Recent projects, such as, wildfire mitigation plan, grid modernization, reliability and resilience 
all require significant capital expenditures to implement. The Company may not be able to obtain the necessary financing to 
achieve its business objectives as a result of the downgrades. Accordingly, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, cash 
flows and results of operations may be adversely impacted if debt credit ratings are maintained at below investment grade for an 
extended period of time. 
HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings only reflect the view, at the time the ratings are issued, of the applicable rating 
agency. There is no assurance that any such credit rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such rating 
will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agency if, in such rating agency’s judgment, 
circumstances, such as current, past or future effects or events so warrant. Any such lowering, suspension or withdrawal of any 
rating may have an adverse effect on the availability of capital to the Company or the market price or marketability of HEI’s 
and/or Hawaiian Electric’s securities, which could increase the cost of capital of HEI and Hawaiian Electric, and such increased 
costs, including interest charges, under HEI’s and/or Hawaiian Electric’s debt securities and credit facilities, would result in 
reductions in HEI’s consolidated net income in future periods. Because HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings were 
downgraded, HEI and Hawaiian Electric are unable to sell commercial paper and were required to draw on more expensive 
bank lines of credit and prioritize capital and other expenditures. Neither HEI nor Hawaiian Electric management can predict 
the duration of the downgrades and future rating agency actions or their effects on the future cost of capital of HEI or Hawaiian 
Electric. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any securities; such ratings may be subject to revision or 
withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies; and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Extreme weather events and other natural disasters, particularly those exacerbated by evolving climate dynamics such as 
the Maui windstorm and wildfires, could materially affect Hawaiian Electric’s assets and infrastructure, particularly if such 
infrastructure is damaged or is found to have contributed to other catastrophic events such as a wildfire.  Extreme weather-
related incidents and other natural disasters, including volcanic eruptions, mudslides, hurricanes, tsunamis and other storms, can 
interfere with the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver 
electricity to customers. Damage to Hawaiian Electric’s infrastructure can also cause or contribute to additional loss through 
events such as wildfires. These risks are increasing, as evolving climate dynamics have exacerbated some of the conditions that 
lead to these extreme weather events and natural disasters. Such an event can result in lost revenue and increased expenses for 
the Utilities, but it also can result in regulatory penalties and disallowances if Hawaiian Electric is unable to restore power on a 
timely basis. Also, an extreme event can lead to significant claims for damages, including for loss of life and property, and has 
been the case with the Maui windstorm and wildfires. Therefore, these events could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company’s business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
16
Holding Company Risk—HEI is a holding company that derives its income from its principal operating subsidiary, 
Hawaiian Electric, and depends on the ability of Hawaiian Electric to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI and on 
its own ability to raise capital.  HEI is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. As a holding company, HEI’s 
cash flows and consequent ability to service its obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon its receipt 
of dividends or other distributions from Hawaiian Electric and its ability to issue common stock or other equity securities and to 
incur additional debt. A material reduction or delay in dividends or other distributions by Hawaiian Electric for an extended 
period of time, such as a continuation or expansion of the reduction in dividends that HEI currently is experiencing due to the 
Maui windstorm and wildfires, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results 
of operations. The ability of Hawaiian Electric to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI, in turn, is subject to the 
risks associated with their operations and to contractual and regulatory restrictions, including:
• the provisions of an HEI agreement with the PUC (PUC Agreement), which could limit the ability of HEI’s principal 
electric public utility subsidiary, Hawaiian Electric, to pay dividends to HEI in the event that the consolidated common 
stock equity of the Utilities falls below 35% of total capitalization of the Utilities. As of December 31, 2025, the 
consolidated common stock equity of HEI’s electric utility subsidiaries was 42% of their total capitalization based on 
the current definition under the PUC Agreement and, as a result, the Utilities are restricted in cash payment of their 
dividend to HEI at this time (see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.); and
• the provisions of debt instruments of HEI and its subsidiaries.
Credit and Capital Market Risk—The Company, and its lowered credit rating, is subject to risks associated with the 
Hawaii economy, including catastrophic events such as the Maui windstorm and wildfires (in the aggregate and on an 
individual island basis), volatile U.S. capital markets and changes in the interest rate and credit market environment that have 
or could result in higher retirement benefit plan funding requirements and restrictions on the ability of HEI or its subsidiaries 
to borrow money or issue securities.  The two largest components of Hawaii’s economy are tourism and the federal government 
(including the military). Because the core businesses of HEI’s subsidiaries are providing local public electric utility services 
(through Hawaiian Electric and its subsidiaries), the Company’s operating results are significantly influenced by: Hawaii’s 
economy, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions in the mainland U.S. (particularly California) and Asia 
(particularly Japan) as a result of the impact of those conditions on tourism; by the impact of interest rates on the construction 
and real estate industries and by the impact of federal government spending in Hawaii, which can be affected by world 
conditions; and, from time to time, the expiration of federal government appropriations bills. In addition, the Hawaii economy 
could be directly or indirectly affected by implications and potential impacts of U.S. and foreign capital and credit market 
conditions and federal, state and international responses to those conditions and the potential impacts of global and local 
developments (including economic conditions and uncertainties; unrest, terrorist acts, wars (such as the Russia-Ukraine war), 
conflicts, political protests, deadly virus epidemic, pandemics, or other crisis; the effects of changes that have or may occur in 
U.S. policy, such as with respect to immigration and trade).
Changes in the U.S. capital markets can also have significant effects on the Company. For example, pension funding 
requirements are affected by the market performance of the assets in the master pension trust maintained for pension plans, and 
by the discount rate used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension cost and value obligations. 
The Utilities’ pension tracking mechanisms help moderate pension expense; however, a significant reduction in the discount 
rate or in the value of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets could result in a substantial increase in the gap 
between the projected benefit obligations under the plans and the value of plan assets, resulting in increases in funding 
requirements.
HEI and the Utilities are also exposed to interest rate risk primarily due to their periodic borrowing requirements, the 
discount rate used to determine pension funding requirements and the possible effect of interest rates on the Utilities’ rates of 
return. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including general economic conditions and the policies of government and 
regulatory authorities. HEI cannot predict future changes in interest rates, nor be certain that interest rate risk management 
strategies it or its subsidiaries have implemented will be successful in managing interest rate risk.
There may be future conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and 
it is possible that any plan developed to alleviate such doubt may be unsuccessful. In addition, any capital raised may result in 
dilution to our current shareholders.  For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company incurred losses from continuing 
operations of approximately $1.32 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Utilities incurred net losses of 
approximately $1.23 billion. The net losses for the year ended December 31, 2024, were primarily due to the accruals of 
estimated wildfire liabilities in the second and third quarters of 2024, totaling approximately $1.92 billion related to the Maui 
windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal claims. The Company previously disclosed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ending June 30, 2024, that based on its financial and liquidity condition, and because it had not yet implemented a 
capital financing plan to address proposed wildfire settlement payments, there was substantial doubt about HEI’s and the 
Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern. In the third quarter of 2024, the Company was able to alleviate the conditions 
that caused the substantial doubt about HEI’s and the Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern.
17
Management believes the Company’s cash and cash equivalents amount of $502 million and GLST1’s restricted cash 
amount of $479 million, both as of December 31, 2025, the available capacity on Hawaiian Electric’s asset-based lending 
facility (ABL Facility) (see Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein), additional liquidity under HEI’s 
registered at-the-market offering program as well as expenditure reduction efforts effectively alleviate any conditions that may 
cause substantial doubt regarding HEI’s and Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has adequate cash 
to meet its financial obligations and sustain operations in the short term, including available sufficient liquidity to fund the first 
installment of the settlement of wildfire tort claims (expected to be made no sooner than early 2026) and its other cash 
obligations for the next 12 months following the issuance of its financial statements. The plans that have been implemented 
have mitigated the conditions that previously caused the substantial doubt about HEI’s and the Utilities’ ability to continue as a 
going concern as of the date of filing their 2024 second quarter financial statements. Although the Company has raised 
sufficient cash to pay the first installment of the settlement of wildfire tort claims, the Company is currently working with its 
financial advisors on a financing plan to raise the additional capital necessary to fund the remaining settlement of wildfire tort 
claims. While management believes the Company will be able to raise the necessary capital, there is no assurance that 
management’s plans will be successful. If the financing plans are unsuccessful, the Company may need to consider other 
strategic alternatives.
The recurrence of any substantial doubt about HEI’s and the Utilities’ ability to continue as a going concern may affect the 
price of our common stock, may impact our relationship with third parties with whom the Company does business, including 
our vendors, lenders and employees, may impact our ability to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt and may impact 
our ability to comply, going forward, with certain covenants in our debt agreements and/or satisfy conditions to draw 
thereunder, which could significantly and materially restrict our operations.
If a court-approved definitive settlement agreement to resolve Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal claims is not 
obtained, or if financing for settlement payments is not available, the Company may need to consider other alternatives for 
addressing the outstanding legal claims or settlement payments, and such alternatives could adversely affect our financial 
results or other factors impacting our finances, operations or stock valuation.  As described more fully in Note 2 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, the Company entered into Settlement Agreements effective November 1, 
2024, to resolve all Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal claims, including all claims among the defendants. Such 
Settlement Agreements are subject to court approval, and other conditions including resolution of the claims of the insurance 
companies that have paid claims for property loss and other damages. If all conditions of the Settlement Agreements are 
satisfied, the Company has agreed to make substantial payments to settle all Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal 
claims. As described more fully in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, if the conditions of the 
Settlement Agreements are not satisfied or the agreements are otherwise terminated, the Company intends to vigorously defend 
against the litigation. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in the defense of the litigation or that insurance 
proceeds will be available to fund any potential settlements, judgments, or costs associated with the litigation. 
If all conditions of the Settlement Agreements are satisfied, the Company expects to finance the settlement payments 
through a mix of debt, common equity, equity-linked securities or other potential options. While management believes the 
Company will be able to raise the capital necessary to finance the settlement payments, there is no assurance that future 
financing will be available in sufficient amounts, on a timely basis or on reasonable terms acceptable to us, if at all. 
If the Company’s financing plans are unsuccessful, the Company may need to consider other strategic alternatives, 
including delaying strategic initiatives, selling assets, or other strategic measures including, without limitation, obtaining relief 
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Such alternatives could adversely affect our financial results or other factors impacting our 
finances, operations or stock valuation.
Shareholders of HEI’s common stock may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings.  In order to raise 
additional capital, including capital necessary to fund litigation settlement expenses, the Company may in the future offer 
additional shares of HEI’s Common Stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for HEI Common Stock at prices 
that may not be the same as the current market price per share, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future 
could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which the Company may sell additional shares of HEI 
Common Stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into HEI Common Stock, in future transactions may be higher or 
lower than the current market price per share of HEI Common Stock.
In addition, any future sales of a substantial number of shares of HEI Common Stock in the public market, or the 
perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the price of HEI Common Stock. The Company cannot predict the 
effect, if any, that market sales of those shares of Common Stock, or the perception that those shares may be sold, will have on 
the market price of HEI Common Stock. Further, the Company may not have the ability to raise the amount of capital necessary 
on reasonable terms, or at all, to fund our contribution to the Maui wildfire tort litigation settlement, and uncertainties about the 
Company’s access to capital could have a material adverse effect on the market price of HEI Common Stock.
18
The Company does not expect to pay any dividends on HEI Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The Company does 
not currently intend to pay dividends on HEI Common Stock and currently intends to retain future earnings, if any, to fund the 
development and growth of the Company’s business and to fund future settlement payments of the tort-related legal claims in 
the litigation arising out of the Maui windstorm and wildfires. In addition, the terms of certain existing and any future debt 
agreements may preclude the Company from paying dividends on HEI Common Stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, 
of HEI Common Stock may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.
Tax Legislation Risk—Adverse tax rulings or developments or changes in tax legislation could result in significant 
increases in tax payments and/or expense. Governmental taxing authorities could challenge a tax return position taken by HEI 
or its subsidiaries and if the taxing authorities prevail, HEI’s consolidated tax payments and/or expense, including applicable 
penalties and interest, could increase significantly. Additionally, changes in tax legislation or IRS interpretations could increase 
the Company’s tax burden and adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
Geographic Concentration Risk—The Company is subject to the risks associated with the geographic concentration of its 
businesses and current lack of interconnections that could result in service interruptions at the Utilities.  The business of the 
Utilities is concentrated on the individual islands they serve in the State of Hawaii. Their operations are more vulnerable to 
service interruptions than that of many U.S. mainland utilities because none of the systems of the Utilities are interconnected 
with the systems on the other islands they serve. Because of this lack of interconnections, it is necessary to maintain higher 
generation reserve margins than are typical for U.S. mainland utilities to help ensure reliable service. Service interruptions, 
including, in particular, extended interruptions that could result from a natural disaster or terrorist activity, could adversely 
impact the revenues and costs of some or all of the Utilities.
Competitive and Technological Risk—Increasing competition and technological advances could cause HEI’s businesses to 
lose customers or render their operations obsolete.  Certain aspects of the electric utility industry are competitive. The success 
of HEI’s subsidiaries in meeting competition and responding to technological advances will continue to have a direct impact on 
HEI’s consolidated financial performance. For example:
• The Utilities face competition from customer self-generation, with or without cogeneration; customer energy storage; 
wheeling of renewable energy under Senate Bill 589, now known as Act 266, and the potential formation of 
community-based, cooperative ownership or municipality structures for electrical service on all islands it serves. With 
the exception of certain identified projects, the Utilities are required to use competitive bidding to acquire a future 
generation resource unless the PUC finds competitive bidding to be unsuitable. This means that unless exempt, 
proposed company-owned generation projects must be bid into a request for proposals which is open to IPPs, and be 
selected under a competitive bidding process. The PUC sets policies for distributed generation interconnection 
agreements and standby rates. The results of competitive bidding, customer self-generation, wheeling, and potential 
cooperative ownership or municipality structures for electric utility service, and the rate at which technological 
developments facilitating nonutility generation of electricity, combined heat and power technology, off-grid 
microgrids, and customer energy storage may render the operations of the Utilities less competitive or outdated and 
adversely affect the Utilities and the results of their operations. 
Cybersecurity and Physical Security Risk—The Company’s information technology systems and operations could be 
impacted by a cyber incident, cybersecurity breach, or physical attack that could materially and adversely affect its businesses 
and reputation.  The Company and its subsidiaries rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed or 
hosted by third party service providers, to manage its business data, communications, and other business processes. Such 
information technology systems are vulnerable to cyberattacks or other security incidents, which could result in unauthorized 
access to confidential data, ransomware demands or disruptions to operations. In addition, there is increasing cybersecurity risk 
associated with the broad adoption of a remote working environment. If the Company is unable to prevent or adequately 
respond to and resolve an incident, it may have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of 
operations and reputation.
Utilities.  The Utilities rely on evolving and complex operational systems and infrastructure and information systems, 
networks and other technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, which are interconnected with the 
systems and network infrastructure owned by third parties to support a variety of business processes and activities, including 
procurement and supply chain, invoicing and collection of payments, customer relationship management, human resource 
management, the acquisition, generation and delivery of electrical service to customers, and to process financial information 
and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting and legal and tax 
requirements. The Utilities use their systems and infrastructure to create, collect, store, and process sensitive information, 
including personal information regarding customers, employees and their dependents, retirees, and other individuals. Their 
systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access caused by natural disasters, physical attacks, cybersecurity 
incidents, security breaches, user error, unintentional defects created by system changes, military or terrorist actions, nation-
19
state threat actors, criminal organizations, power or communication failures or similar events. Any such failure could have a 
material adverse impact on the Utilities’ ability to process transactions and provide service, as well the Utilities’ financial 
condition and results of operations. Physical attacks targeting physical assets or personnel could cause damage, disrupt 
operations, or cause injuries. Any failure, interruption, or decrease in the functionality of the Utility’s operational networks 
could cause harm to the public or employees, significantly disrupt operations, negatively impact the Utility’s ability to operate 
in a safe and efficient manner, and damage the Utility’s assets or operations or those of third parties. Further, a data breach 
involving theft, improper disclosure, or other unauthorized access to or acquisition of confidential information could subject the 
Utilities to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, claims by third parties, and enforcement actions by government 
agencies. A data breach could also reduce the value of proprietary information, and harm the reputation of the Utilities.
Private and public entities, such as the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, and the U.S. federal government, 
including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, and the White House, have noted that cyberattacks 
targeting utility systems are increasing in sophistication, magnitude, and frequency. The Utilities’ systems have been, and will 
likely continue to be, a target of attacks. Further, the Utilities’ operational networks may be subject to unforeseen operational/
cybersecurity risks due to the reliance on legacy operational components or modernizing and interconnecting existing 
infrastructure with new technologies and control systems, including those owned by third parties, such as independent power 
producers, distributed energy resource aggregators and customers. Although the Utilities have not experienced a material 
cybersecurity or physical security breach to date, such incidents may occur and may have a material adverse effect on the 
Utilities and the Company in the future. The Utilities continue to make investments in their cybersecurity and physical security 
programs, including personnel, technologies, cyber insurance and training of Utilities personnel; however, there can be no 
assurance that these systems or their expected functionality will be implemented, maintained, or expanded effectively; nor can 
security measures completely eliminate the possibility of a cybersecurity breach or physical attack. The Utilities maintain cyber 
liability insurance that covers certain damages caused by cyber incidents. However, there is no guarantee that adequate 
insurance will continue to be available at rates the Utilities believe are reasonable or that the costs of responding to, and 
recovering from, a cyber incident will be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. If the Utilities’ operational technologies 
or networks were to malfunction or fail or cybersecurity or other security measures were to be breached, the Utilities could 
suffer financial loss, business disruptions, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or damage to their reputations.
Due to the size, scope and complexity of the Utilities’ business, the development and maintenance of information 
technology systems to process and track information is critical and challenging. The Utilities often rely on third-party vendors 
to host, maintain, modify, and update its systems and these third-party vendors could cease to exist, fail to establish adequate 
processes to protect the Utilities systems and information, experience supply chain compromises or other internal or external 
security incidents. In addition, the Utilities are pursuing complex business transformation initiatives, which include the 
implementation of new systems and the upgrade or replacement of existing systems. Significant system changes increase the 
risk of system interruptions, which may occur. Further, delay or failure to complete the integration of information systems and 
processes may result in delays in regulatory cost recovery, or the failure to realize the benefits anticipated to be derived from 
these initiatives.
The Utilities’ disaster recovery plans may not be successful in preventing the loss of customer data, service interruptions 
and disruptions to operations or damage to important facilities. If any of these systems fail to operate properly or become 
disabled and the Utilities’ disaster recovery plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, the Utilities could 
suffer financial loss, business disruptions, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or damage to their reputations, any of 
which could have a material adverse effect on the Utilities’ and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
Uninsured Losses—HEI’s businesses could suffer losses that are uninsured due to a lack of affordable insurance coverage, 
unavailability of insurance coverage or limitations on the insurance coverage the Company does have.  In the ordinary course 
of business, HEI and its subsidiaries purchase insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect against loss 
of, or damage to, their properties and against claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal 
injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, there is no 
coverage. Some of the insurance coverages have substantial deductibles or have limits on the maximum amounts that may be 
recovered. In common with other companies in its line of business, the Utilities’ overhead and underground transmission and 
distribution systems (with the exception of substation buildings and contents), which have a replacement value roughly 
estimated at $14 billion, are largely not insured against loss or damage because the amount of transmission and distribution 
system insurance capacity is limited and the premiums are cost prohibitive. Similarly, the Utilities have no business interruption 
insurance as the premiums for such insurance would be cost prohibitive, particularly since the Utilities are not interconnected to 
other systems. If a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, and if the PUC did not allow the 
affected Utilities to recover from ratepayers restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption, the lost revenues and 
repair expenses could result in a significant decrease in HEI’s consolidated net income or in significant net losses for the 
affected periods.
20
Related to damages and costs incurred as a result of the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Company has property 
insurance with a total policy limit of $500 million, subject to a $1 million retention, for wildfire damages related to Utility-
owned non-generating assets, including overhead transmission and distribution assets within 1,000 feet of such assets. The 
Company also has $165 million of excess liability insurance and $25 million of professional liability insurance for third party 
claims, including claims related to wildfires, with a retention of $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, and $145 million 
directors and officers liability insurance to cover claims related to shareholder and derivative lawsuits, with a retention of $1.0 
million. The aggregate damages and costs associated with the Maui windstorm and wildfires could significantly exceed the 
Company’s policy limits.
Environmental Regulation—Increased federal and state environmental regulation will require an increasing commitment 
of resources and funds and could result in construction delays or penalties and fines for non-compliance.  HEI and its 
subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, 
hazardous substances, waste management, natural resources and health and safety, which regulate, among other matters, the 
operation of existing facilities, the construction and operation of new facilities and the proper cleanup and disposal of hazardous 
and toxic wastes and substances. These laws and regulations could result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. HEI or 
its subsidiaries are currently involved in investigatory or remedial actions at current, former or third-party sites and there is no 
assurance that the Company will not incur material costs relating to these sites. In addition, compliance with these legal 
requirements requires the Utilities to commit significant resources and funds toward, among other things, environmental 
monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees and natural resource minimization and 
mitigation costs. These laws and regulations, among other things, require that certain environmental permits be obtained in 
order to construct or operate certain facilities, and obtaining such permits can entail significant expense and cause substantial 
construction delays. Also, these laws and regulations may be amended from time to time, including amendments that increase 
the burden and cost of compliance. For example, emission and/or discharge limits may be tightened, more extensive permitting 
requirements may be imposed and additional substances may become regulated. In addition, significant regulatory uncertainty 
exists regarding the impact of federal or state greenhouse gas emission limits and reductions.
If HEI or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their 
control, that failure may result in civil or criminal penalties and fines or the cessation of operations that could have a material 
adverse on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. 
Electric utility risks.
 The following risks are generally specific to Hawaiian Electric, but could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 
consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 
Regulatory Risk—Actions of the PUC are outside the control of the Utilities and could result in inadequate or untimely rate 
increases, rate reductions or refunds or unanticipated delays, expenses or writedowns in connection with the construction of 
new projects.  The rates the Utilities are allowed to charge for their services and the timeliness of permitted rate increases are 
among the most important items influencing the Utilities’ results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The PUC has 
broad discretion over the rates that the Utilities charge their customers. On December 23, 2020, as part of the D&O establishing 
the PBR Framework, the PUC established a five-year Multi-year Rate Period (MRP) during which there will be no general rate 
cases. In the fourth year of the MRP, the PUC began its comprehensive review of the PBR Framework to determine if any 
modifications or revisions are appropriate. The Utilities are currently exploring a collaborative non-rate case re-basing proposal 
under the PBR Framework as an alternative to a rate case process. This alternative could be implemented by January 2027. If a 
satisfactory non-rate case re-basing alternative cannot be achieved, the Utilities would file a rate case in the second half of 
2026, utilizing a 2027 test year.
Any adverse decision by the PUC concerning the level or method of determining electric utility rates at the end of the 
MRP, including the items and amounts that may be included in rate base, the returns on equity or rate base found to be 
reasonable, the potential consequences of exceeding or not meeting such returns, the denial of exceptional project recovery 
applications during the MRP, adverse impact of adjustments made to the PBR Framework, decisions on recovery of exogenous 
items under the PBR Framework, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding could have a 
material adverse effect on Hawaiian Electric’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
To improve the timing and certainty of cost recovery, the Utilities have received approval of various recovery mechanisms, 
including an ECRC (which includes a PUC-ordered 98%/2% risk-sharing split between customers and the Utilities for fossil 
fuel price variations from baseline prices, with a current annual aggregate exposure cap of +/- $3.7 million), a PPAC, and 
pension and OPEB tracking mechanisms, as well as a decoupling mechanism, an exceptional project recovery mechanism 
(EPRM) (formerly Major Project Interim Recovery (MPIR) adjustment mechanism), and a Renewable Energy Infrastructure 
Program surcharge. Any modification or elimination of these cost recovery mechanisms could have a material adverse effect on 
the Utilities. See “Regulatory mechanisms” in Electric utility’s Business.
21
Under the PBR Framework, the Utilities’ annual revenue adjustment (ARA) includes a customer dividend consisting of a 
negative adjustment of 0.22% compounded annually and a flow through of the “pre-PBR” savings commitment from the 
management audit recommendations developed in the 2020 test year rate case. The ability of the Utilities to recover increasing 
costs and earn a reasonable return on capital investments not covered by the ARA or not achieving the customer dividend and 
cost savings commitment could have a material adverse effect on the Utilities. In addition, several existing Performance 
Incentive Mechanisms (PIMs) remain in effect. The PUC has indicated that in the next phase of PBR review, it will examine 
modifications to the I-factor and the customer dividend provisions of the ARA, the earnings sharing mechanism, revenue 
opportunities from the X-factor and the EPRM guidelines, and the PIM portfolio. The assessment of penalties for not achieving 
performance goals or the failure to achieve PIMs rewards could affect the Utilities’ ability to achieve their allowed ROACEs 
and also have a material adverse effect on the Utilities. 
Related to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Utilities obtained PUC approval to defer certain non-labor expenses 
incurred from August 8, 2023 through December 31, 2025 that are not already a part of base rates. If the PUC denies recovery 
of any deferred costs, such costs would be charged to expense in the period that those costs are no longer considered probable 
of recovery. Additionally, on August 31, 2023, the PUC issued an order temporarily suspending the ESM until further notice. 
The intent of the order is to address the unintended consequence of customers potentially bearing the costs associated with the 
Maui windstorm and wildfires through the operation of the ESM without prior PUC review. See “Performance-based regulation 
framework” and “Regulatory assets for Maui windstorm and wildfires related costs” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Based on the current operations of the Utilities and regulatory framework, including the impact of the approved PBR 
Framework, the Utilities continue to follow regulatory accounting under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 980. 
Continued accounting in this manner requires that certain criteria relating to the recoverability of such costs through rates be 
met, including achieved financial results that support the recovery of costs. If events or circumstances change, such that the 
criteria are no longer satisfied, the Utilities expect that their regulatory assets (amounting to $308 million as of December 31, 
2025), net of regulatory liabilities (amounting to $1,444 million as of December 31, 2025), would be charged to the statement 
of income in the period of discontinuance. See “Performance-based regulation framework” in Note 4 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
The Utilities could be required to refund, with interest, any revenues collected from customers under interim rate orders in 
their rate case proceedings and other proceedings that exceed the amounts approved in final orders.
Many public utility projects require PUC approval and various permits (e.g., environmental and land use permits) from 
other governmental agencies. Difficulties in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, the necessary approvals or permits, or any 
adverse decision or policy made or adopted, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision, by an agency with respect to such 
approvals and permits, can significantly increase project costs or lead to project cancellation. In the event a project does not 
proceed, or if the PUC disallows cost recovery for all or part of a project, or if project costs exceed caps imposed by the PUC in 
its approval of the project, project costs may need to be written off in amounts that could result in significant reductions in 
Hawaiian Electric’s consolidated net income. In addition, as the Utilities may retire fossil fuel generating units before fully 
recovering of its investment and the PUC disallows recovery of undepreciated costs, the resulting write-offs could have an 
adverse impact on the Utilities’ results of operations.
Weather Conditions Risk—Electric utility operations are significantly influenced by weather conditions and natural 
disasters.  The Utilities’ results of operations can be affected by the weather and natural disasters. Weather conditions, 
particularly temperature and humidity, directly impact the demand for electricity. Additionally, severe weather and natural 
disasters may become more intense and/or frequent because of evolving global climate dynamics. Recent natural disasters such 
as the Kilauea eruption in 2018, Mauna Loa eruption in 2022, and the Maui windstorm and wildfires in 2023, have disrupted 
electric utility operations. These types of events can cause outages, property damage and result in significant additional 
expenses that may not always be recoverable.
Evolving Climate Dynamics Risk—Electric utility operations may be significantly influenced by evolving climate 
dynamics.  While the timing, extent and ultimate effects of evolving climate dynamics cannot be determined with any certainty, 
such dynamics are predicted to cause sea level rise, which could impact coastal and low-lying areas where much of the Utilities’ 
electric infrastructure is located. Potential consequences include erosion of beaches, saltwater intrusion into aquifers and surface 
ecosystems, higher water tables and increased flooding and storm damage due to heavy rainfall. Evolving climate dynamics 
may also intensify extreme weather conditions including floods, hurricanes, heat waves, and droughts which could increase 
wildfire risk. These factors along with changes in sea levels, water availability and water quality have the potential to materially 
and adversely affect the Utilities’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. For example, severe weather and its 
related impacts could cause significant harm to the Utilities’ physical facilities. 
22
Third Party Performance Risk—Electric utility operations depend heavily on third-party suppliers of fuel and purchased 
power.  The Utilities rely on fuel suppliers and shippers, and IPPs to deliver fuel and power, respectively, in accordance with 
contractual agreements. Approximately 75% of the net energy generated or purchased by the Utilities in 2025 was generated 
from the burning of fossil fuel oil, and purchases of power by the Utilities provided about 41% of their total net energy 
generated and purchased for the same period. Failure or delay by fuel suppliers and shippers to provide fuel pursuant to existing 
contracts, or failure by a major IPP to deliver as anticipated in its PPA, could disrupt the ability of the Utilities to deliver 
electricity, affect the Utilities’ maintenance schedules that could affect future reliability and require the Utilities to incur 
additional expenses to meet the needs of their customers that may not be recoverable. In addition, as the IPP contracts near the 
end of their terms, there may be less economic incentive for the IPPs to make investments in their units to ensure the 
availability of their units. Also, as these contractual agreements end, the Utilities may not be able to purchase fuel and power on 
terms equivalent to the current contractual agreements.
Capacity Risk—The capacity provided by the Utilities’ generating resources and third-party purchased power may not be 
sufficient to meet customers’ energy requirements.  The Utilities rely upon their generating resources and purchased power from 
third parties to meet their customers’ energy requirements. The Utilities update their generation capacity evaluation each year to 
determine the Utilities’ ability to meet reasonably expected demands for service and provide reasonable reserves for 
emergencies and other unplanned events. These evaluations are impacted by a variety of factors, including customer energy 
demand, energy conservation and efficiency initiatives, economic conditions, and weather patterns. If the capacity provided by 
the Utilities’ generating resources and third-party purchased power is not adequate relative to customer demand, the Utilities 
may have to contract to buy more power from third parties, invest in additional generating facilities over the long-term, or 
extend the operating life of existing utility units. Any failure to meet customer energy requirements could negatively impact the 
satisfaction of the Utilities’ customers, which could have an adverse impact on the Utilities’ business, reputation and results of 
operations. 
The Energy Reserve Margin, the planning criteria used to determine generation adequacy, is the percentage which the 
system generation capacity must exceed the system load in each hour. The Utilities’ Energy Reserve Margin is satisfied from 
2026 through 2030 with the addition of planned generation and storage resource additions for all islands except for Hawaii 
Island and Lanai, which forecasts are near or slightly below target levels. The One Big Beautiful Act signed into law by 
President Trump on July 4, 2025, impacts the ability of recently selected and new wind and solar projects to qualify for federal 
tax credits. Any loss in renewable energy tax credits will likely result in higher prices for new renewable projects, which rely on 
such incentives to provide clean, affordable energy. The Utilities have plans to address these issues through managing 
maintenance schedules of existing generations, and if necessary, may request for voluntary customer conservation during 
periods of high power demands. The environment for resource planning has increased in complexity and uncertainty and the 
Utilities will continue using a portfolio approach to meet its obligation to serve. This includes increased renewable energy, 
energy storage, and other potential options, both supply side and customer programs. If the Utilities are unable to meet 
customer energy requirements, it could negatively impact the satisfaction of the Utilities’ customers, which could have an 
adverse impact on the Utilities’ business, reputation and results of operations.
Stakeholder Activism Risk—Electric utility and third-party purchased power projects may be significantly impacted by 
stakeholder activism.  The potential impact of stakeholder activism could increase total utility project costs, and delay the 
permitting, construction and overall timing or preclude the completion of third-party or utility projects that are required to meet 
electricity demand, resilience and reliability objectives, and RPS and other climate-related goals. If a utility project cannot be 
completed, the project costs may need to be written off in amounts that could result in significant reductions in Hawaiian 
Electric’s consolidated net income and negatively impact its financial condition and liquidity. 
Operational Risk—Electric utility generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled 
plant outages, unanticipated and/or increased operation and maintenance expenses, increased power purchase costs, and 
decreased reliability.  Operation of electric generating facilities involves certain risks which can adversely affect energy output, 
efficiency levels, and reliability. Included among these risks are facility shutdowns or power interruptions due to insufficient 
generation or a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. In addition, operations could be negatively impacted by 
interruptions in fuel supply, inability to negotiate satisfactory collective bargaining agreements when existing agreements expire 
or other labor disputes, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, disruptions in delivery of electricity, 
operator error, adverse weather or environmental conditions and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, 
fires, explosions, lava flows, floods or other similar occurrences affecting the Utilities’ generating facilities or transmission and 
distribution systems.
Workforce Retention Risk—The Utilities may be adversely affected by not being able to attract and retain qualified 
personnel.  The Utilities’ workforce, particularly key executives, are critical to their ability to achieve their business strategies. 
If the Utilities are unable to successfully attract or retain a skilled workforce, the Utilities may face the risk of disruptions, 
which could have an adverse impact on the Utilities’ business and results of operations. For example, Act 258 sets forth a 
condition on the securitization that may prohibit the Utilities from providing any increase in compensation, including any 
23
bonuses, to their officers for a period of time determined by the PUC. The inability to provide reasonable compensation could 
negatively impact the Utilities’ ability to attract and retain qualified executives.
Legislative Risk—The Utilities may be adversely affected by new legislation, executive orders or administrative actions.  
The Utilities operations are subject to regulations under a wide variety of federal and state regulations and policies. Changes to 
federal and state laws, rules, regulations and policies are continuous and ongoing and the federal administration, the U.S. 
Congress, state legislatures and state administrations may enact and implement new laws, regulations and policies that could 
adversely and materially affect us. The new federal administration has indicated its intent to implement material changes to the 
federal government’s structure and operations and to advocate material changes to federal laws, regulations and policies. The 
Utilities cannot predict future changes in laws, regulations and policies, how they will be implemented and interpreted, or the 
ultimate effect that this changing environment will have on us. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies 
will not be changed in ways that have a material adverse effect on the Utilities’ operations, financial condition, results of 
operations, and cash flows. The federal and state executive branches, Congress, the Hawaii legislature and governmental 
agencies have adopted, or are considering adopting, a number of measures that will significantly affect the Utilities, as 
described below.
Renewable Portfolio Standards law.  The 2001 Hawaii Legislature adopted a law requiring the Utilities to meet a 
renewable portfolio standard, which has been amended over the years. The most recent amendment to Hawaii’s RPS law 
occurred in July 2022, which former Governor Ige signed as Act 240 (H.B.2089), that amended the RPS calculation from 
renewable energy as a percentage of sales to renewable energy as a percentage of total generation. The amended RPS 
calculation results in a lower calculated percentage than the amount calculated under the previous methodology. The change in 
the definition is to be applied prospectively to future milestone measurements and will require that the Utilities acquire more 
renewable energy than under the previous RPS calculation to comply with the RPS milestones. The Utilities are committed to 
achieving these milestones and met the 2015 and 2020 RPS; however, risks such as potential delays in IPPs being able to 
deliver contracted renewable energy, it is possible the Utilities may not attain the required renewable percentages in the future, 
and management cannot predict the future consequences of failure to do so (including potential penalties to be assessed by the 
PUC). On December 19, 2008, the PUC approved a penalty of $20 for every megawatt-hour (MWh) that an electric utility is 
deficient under Hawaii’s RPS law. The PUC noted, however, that this penalty may be reduced, in the PUC’s discretion, due to 
events or circumstances that are outside an electric utility’s reasonable control, to the extent the event or circumstance could not 
be reasonably foreseen and ameliorated, as described in the RPS law and in an RPS framework adopted by the PUC. In 
addition, the PUC ordered that the Utilities will be prohibited from recovering any RPS penalty costs through rates.
Renewable energy.  In 2007, a measure was passed by the Hawaii legislature stating that the PUC may consider the 
need for increased renewable energy in rendering decisions on utility matters. Due to this measure, it is possible that, if energy 
from a renewable source is more expensive than energy from fossil fuel, the PUC may still approve the purchase of energy from 
the renewable source, resulting in higher costs.
Executive orders.  In 2025, President Trump has issued multiple executive orders that impact federal funding. The 
Utilities continue to monitor for any new executive orders and any changes that are passed down through the federal contracting 
officer for the Resilience Program.
Evolving climate dynamics and greenhouse gas emissions reduction.  National and international concern about 
evolving climate dynamics and the contribution of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (including carbon dioxide emissions from 
the combustion of fossil fuels) to such dynamics have led to federal legislative and regulatory proposals and action by the State 
of Hawaii to reduce GHG emissions. 
Hawaii Revised Statutes (HRS) § 269-6(b) requires that “in making determinations of the reasonableness of the costs 
pertaining to electric or gas utility system capital improvements and operations, the PUC shall explicitly consider, quantitatively 
or qualitatively, the effect of the state’s reliance on fossil fuels on price volatility, export of funds for fuel imports, fuel supply 
reliability risk, and greenhouse gas emissions.” Based on HRS § 269-6(b) and recent case law discussing the scope of this 
section, the Utilities are performing GHG analyses to quantitatively or qualitatively describe the GHG emissions of proposed 
projects involving system capital improvements and operations that are submitted to the PUC for approval. On June 20, 2024, 
House Bill 2390 was signed into law as Act 54 and took effect on July 1, 2024. Act 54 authorizes the PUC to waive a lifecycle 
GHG analysis for energy projects that do not involve combustion. On September 18, 2024, the PUC approved the Utilities’ 
waiver requests for the Stage 3 solar plus storage and wind projects.
In June 2018, House Bill 2182 was signed into law as Act 15 and took effect on July 1, 2018. Among its provisions, Act 15 
aligned the state’s clean energy and carbon sequestration efforts with climate initiative goals and established a statewide carbon 
neutral goal by 2045. Under this Act, efforts would be made to “sequester more atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than 
emitted within the state as quickly as practicable, but no later than 2045.” The Hawaii Climate Change Mitigation and 
Adaptation Commission, administratively placed under the State Department of Land and Natural Resources, was charged with 
endeavoring to achieve the target, and giving consideration to the impact of its plans, decisions and strategies on the state’s 
24
ability to attain the goal. The general functions, duties and powers of the Hawaii Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 
Commission are set forth in HRS § 225P-3. To achieve its mandates, the Hawaii Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 
Commission may recommend plans, decisions and strategies that could have an impact on various entities including the 
Utilities. In July 2022, House Bill 1800 was signed into law as Act 238 and took effect on July 1, 2022. The Act established a 
goal for the statewide greenhouse gas emissions limit to be at least 50% below 2005 levels by 2030.
The Utilities have taken, and continue to identify opportunities to take, direct action to reduce GHG emissions from their 
operations while focusing on reliability and managing cost impacts, including, but not limited to, supporting demand-side 
management programs that foster energy efficiency, using renewable resources for energy production and purchasing power 
from IPPs generated by renewable resources, and burning renewable biodiesel at selected Hawaiian Electric and Maui Electric 
generating units. In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Utilities outlined their Climate Action Plan to cut carbon emissions from 
power generation 70% by 2030, compared to a 2005 baseline. The emissions covered by this goal include stack emissions from 
generation owned by Hawaiian Electric and IPPs who sell electricity to the Utilities. Since that time, delays and cancellations in 
the commercial operation of new renewable third-party generation resources and higher costs as a result of supply chain 
disruptions and inflationary pressures, as well as federal policies have slowed the pace of progress toward reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions. Also, see the “Developments in renewable energy efforts—New renewable PPAs” section in Hawaiian Electric’s 
MD&A. The One Big Beautiful Act signed into law by President Trump on July 4, 2025 may impact the ability of recently 
selected and new wind and solar projects to qualify for federal tax credits. Any loss in renewable energy tax credits could lead 
to project risk for new wind and solar projects in development and will likely result in higher prices for new renewable projects, 
which rely on such incentives to provide clean, affordable energy. Further, new tariffs imposed on equipment and materials 
used in the construction of renewable facilities will have an impact on pricing of new renewable projects. As a result of these 
challenges and the downgrade of Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings after the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Utilities expect 
the planned 70% reduction in carbon emissions to be achieved later than the original 2030 target date. However, the Utilities 
will continue to replace significant amounts of fossil fuel generation with renewable energy between now and 2030 and expect 
to meet or exceed the State of Hawaii’s 2030 RPS goals.
Alternative business models.  The Utilities are regulated operations engaged in the production, purchase, transmission, 
distribution and sale of electricity as a vertically integrated electric company. Any changes through the enactment of law to 
their current business model to alternative models, such as co-ops or a municipal, or to unbundle generation from transmission 
and distribution could potentially cause the Utilities to lose their competitive advantages and negatively impact the Utilities’ 
results of operations.
The foregoing legislation or legislation that now is, or may in the future be, proposed, such as potential carbon “cap and 
trade” legislation that, if applicable, may fundamentally alter costs to produce electricity and accelerate the move to renewable 
generation, present risks and uncertainties for the Utilities.
Renewable Transition Risk—The Utilities may be subject to increased operational challenges and their results of 
operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely impacted in meeting the commitments and objectives of clean 
energy initiatives, Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) and other climate-related goals.  The far-reaching nature of the 
Utilities’ renewable energy commitments and the RPS and other climate related goals present risks to the Company. Among 
such risks are: (1) the potential delay by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of Hawaii (PUC) in considering (and 
potential disapproval of actual or proposed) renewable energy proposals and related costs; (2) the dependence on outside 
parties, such as the state, developers and third-party suppliers of renewable energy, which if the Utilities are unsuccessful in 
negotiating purchased power agreements with such IPPs or if a major IPP delays or fails to deliver the anticipated capacity and/
or energy in its purchased power agreement, could impact the Utilities’ achievement of their commitments to RPS and other 
climate-related goals, eligibility for performance incentive mechanisms associated with the speed of increasing renewable 
generation, the ability to retire fossil fuel units, and/or the Utilities’ ability to deliver reliable service; (3) delays in acquiring or 
unavailability of non-fossil fuel supplies for renewable generation; (4) the impact of intermittent power to the electrical grid and 
reliability of service if appropriate supporting infrastructure is not installed or does not operate effectively; (5) the inability to 
recover the undepreciated cost of fossil fuel generating units if they are required to be retired before the end of their expected 
useful life; (6) uncertainties surrounding current and future renewable technologies, such as solar power, wind power, biofuels, 
battery storage, hydro, hydrogen, as well as related environmental assessments required to meet RPS and other climate-related 
goals; (7) uncertainty with regard to federal policy, including tax credit availability for both IPPs and Utility projects; (8) the 
impacts of implementation of the renewable energy proposals on future costs of electricity and potential penalties imposed by 
the PUC for delays in the commercial operations of renewable energy projects; (9) the likelihood that the Utilities may need to 
make substantial investments in related infrastructure, which could result in increased borrowings and, therefore, materially 
impact the financial condition and liquidity of the Utilities; (10) the imputed debt related to the executed renewable power 
purchase agreements could result in a credit rating downgrade for the Utilities and the Company; and (11) the commitment to 
support a variety of initiatives, which, if approved by the PUC, may have a material impact on the results of operations and 
financial condition of the Utilities depending on their design and implementation. These initiatives include, but are not limited 
25
to, programs to enable more customer-sited generation. The implementation of these or other programs may adversely impact 
the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the Utilities.
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
HEI:  None.
Hawaiian Electric:  Not applicable.
ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY
Cybersecurity risk oversight and management is a critical component of the Company’s overall enterprise risk management 
and top priority for the Company and its Board of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors has delegated oversight of 
Enterprise Risk Management, which includes cybersecurity, to the HEI and Hawaiian Electric Audit and Risk Committees 
(collectively, the ARCs). The ARCs exercise their oversight responsibility of cybersecurity through quarterly (or more 
frequently if necessary) cybersecurity risk updates and reports of incidents, if any, by management (primarily the Utilities’ 
Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)). In early 2023, in recognition of the heightened 
cybersecurity risks facing the Company, the ARCs formed the non-fiduciary Cybersecurity Working Group (CWG) to assist the 
ARCs with their oversight of such risks, including through: conducting periodic meetings with management to discuss cyber 
risk, risk treatment, and operational activities relative to cyber risk treatment; evaluating cybersecurity areas highlighted by the 
ARCs, including areas the CWG deems higher risk or topical; reporting to the ARCs on a quarterly basis, or more frequently as 
needed; and coordinating with the Company’s management on regular trainings and tabletop exercises for the Board of 
Directors. In early 2026, the ARCs broadened the oversight of the CWG to include physical security risk, given the potential 
interconnectedness of cybersecurity and physical security risks. The updated working group, now named the Cyber and 
Physical Security Working Group (CPWG), continues to perform the cybersecurity-related oversight described above with 
respect to the CWG in addition to added oversight relating to physical security risk. 
Electric utility
System overview.  The Utilities rely on evolving and increasingly complex operational systems and infrastructure and 
information systems, networks and other technologies, which are interconnected with the systems and network infrastructure 
owned by third parties, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, 
invoicing and collection of payments, customer relationship management, human resource management, the acquisition, 
generation and delivery of electrical service to customers, and to process financial information and results of operations for 
internal and external reporting and compliance with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. The Utilities use 
their systems and infrastructure to create, collect, store, and process sensitive information, including personal information 
regarding customers, employees and their dependents, retirees, and other individuals.
Risk management and strategy.  The Utilities have a cybersecurity program in place, which is integrated into the overall 
risk management program and includes a risk management strategy and risk assessment policy, which are disseminated and 
maintained by the CISO, revisited annually and govern the enterprise cybersecurity risk and maturity assessment process. The 
program is aligned with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), and 
leverages a risk-based approach to optimize security investment and advance the security program’s maturity and security 
posture over time. 
The Utilities’ cybersecurity program adopts security measures designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of information technology systems, network infrastructure and other assets. The Utilities’ security measures, such as 
awareness and training, monitoring, etc. are designed to prevent, detect, and minimize the effects of a cybersecurity incident. 
These measures are periodically evaluated and audited against the NIST CSF by internal audit and independent third-party 
cybersecurity specialists. 
The CISO actively monitors developments in the area of cybersecurity and is involved in various related government and 
industry groups and briefs the Company’s Board quarterly or as needed, including through the CPWG, on relevant 
cybersecurity issues. The Utilities continue to make investments in their cybersecurity program, including personnel, 
technologies, cyber insurance and training of Utilities personnel.
The Utilities have disaster recovery and incident response plans in place to protect their businesses from information 
technology service interruptions. The disaster recovery plans are established to help prevent the loss of customer data, service 
interruptions and disruptions to operations or damage to important facilities. In addition, the Utilities also maintain cyber 
liability insurance that covers certain damages caused by cyber incidents.
Despite the Utilities’ security measures, all of their systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access 
caused by natural disasters, physical attacks, cybersecurity incidents, security breaches, user error, unintentional defects created 
by system changes, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures or similar events. 
26
To date, the Utilities are not aware of any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous 
cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Utilities, including their 
business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. For further information, see “The Company’s information 
technology and operations could be impacted by a cyber incident, cybersecurity breach, or physical attack that could materially 
and adversely affect its businesses and reputation” in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Governance.  Cybersecurity governance is a critically important part of managing security and risk, and helps ensure that 
the Utilities’ cybersecurity program aligns with its business objectives, complies with government and industry regulations, and 
achieves the goals that leadership has set out for managing security and risk. 
The Company’s Board of Directors oversees risks from cybersecurity threats. Oversight includes quarterly or as needed 
reporting from the CISO on the overall cybersecurity risk reduction program maturity, emerging and current cybersecurity 
risks, and the cybersecurity threat landscape.
The CISO has over 30 years of experience in assessing and managing cyber risks, is responsible for day-to-day 
management of cybersecurity risks and regularly reports to the Board of Directors through the CPWG.
All Other segment 
HEI does not have an information technology (IT) or cybersecurity risk management (CRM) department, including the 
resources or expertise, to manage IT/CRM-related matters and processes. HEI relies on Hawaiian Electric to provide most of its 
IT/CRM-related services pursuant to a Service Level Agreement (SLA), amended, as of November 30, 2023, between HEI and 
Hawaiian Electric. HEI also employs third party cybersecurity consultants as needed to assist in managing CRM-related 
matters. The SLA outlines specific services that Hawaiian Electric provides to HEI, which includes support on all IT/CRM-
related matters, IT service desk support, electronic file storage and backup, hardware and software installation, inventory and 
maintenance, standard networking and telecommunication support, and other various IT/CRM matters, including periodic 
reporting to HEI’s Board of Directors and CPWG. Refer to Hawaiian Electric’s cybersecurity discussion for more information.
The SLA services provided by Hawaiian Electric are mainly for applications and systems on Hawaiian Electric’s 
infrastructure, networks and servers. The SLA does not cover support for certain software applications that were procured 
outside of Hawaiian Electric’s procurement and IT policies and procedures. These include HEI’s general ledger application 
itself, excluding the infrastructure that the general ledger application is installed on, and certain cloud-based software. Although 
these applications are not supported by Hawaiian Electric, security measures and internal control procedures related to user 
access and periodic security reviews have been implemented on these applications and are performed on an on-going basis in 
accordance with Hawaiian Electric’s IT policies and procedures. These controls are required to protect HEI’s financial and 
other sensitive information, as well as to prevent cybersecurity breaches on Hawaiian Electric’s infrastructure, networks and 
servers. In the event of a cybersecurity breach on these applications not supported by Hawaiian Electric, HEI employs third 
party cybersecurity consultants to assess and resolve issues resulting from a breach, depending on its severity. Hawaiian 
Electric may also provide guidance and support to assist HEI in assessing and resolving cybersecurity breaches. HEI has also 
formulated disaster recovery plans, which are updated on an annual basis, involving all of its critical applications.
HEI’s cybersecurity governance is primarily integrated within Hawaiian Electric’s cybersecurity governance plan and 
processes. HEI’s Board of Directors and CPWG are tasked with overseeing risks from cybersecurity threats through routine 
quarterly, or as needed, updates and periodic deep-dive sessions. These updates cover cybersecurity incidents, as well as overall 
cybersecurity risk reduction program maturity, emerging and current cybersecurity risks, and the cybersecurity threat landscape.  
The HEI CFO oversees all IT and cybersecurity matters at HEI, including having oversight responsibility for the services 
delivered under the SLA. Since the HEI CFO does not have expertise in cybersecurity, the HEI CFO works with the Hawaiian 
Electric CISO and, if necessary, with third-party cybersecurity consultants on assessing, identifying, and managing material 
cybersecurity matters impacting HEI. There were no cybersecurity incidents that have materially affected or that we believe are 
reasonably likely to materially affect HEI, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial condition.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
HEI and Hawaiian Electric:  See the “Properties” sections under “HEI” and “Electric utility” in Item 1. Business above.
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
HEI and Hawaiian Electric:  HEI and Hawaiian Electric (including their direct and indirect subsidiaries) may be involved in 
ordinary routine PUC proceedings, environmental proceedings and/or litigation incidental to their respective businesses. See the 
descriptions of legal proceedings (including judicial proceedings and proceedings before the PUC and environmental and other 
administrative agencies) in “Item 1. Business,” in HEI’s MD&A and in the Notes 2 and 4 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The outcomes of litigation and administrative proceedings are necessarily uncertain and there is a risk that the 
27
outcome of such matters could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of HEI 
or one or more of its subsidiaries for a particular period in the future.
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE
HEI and Hawaiian Electric:  Not applicable.
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (HEI)
The executive officers of HEI are listed below. Ms. Kimura is an officer of Hawaiian Electric, a subsidiary of HEI, but is 
deemed to be an executive officer of HEI under SEC Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the 1934 Exchange Act. HEI executive 
officers serve from the date of their initial appointment and are reappointed annually by the HEI Board or the Hawaiian Electric 
Board, as applicable, and thereafter are appointed for one-year terms or until their successors have been duly appointed and 
qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. HEI executive officers may also hold offices with HEI subsidiaries and 
affiliates in addition to their current positions listed below.
Name Age Business experience for last 5 years and prior positions with the Company
Scott W. H. Seu 60 HEI President and Chief Executive Officer since 1/22
HEI Director since 1/22
ASB Director 1/22 to 12/24, Chair 1/22 to 8/23
ASB Hawaii Director since 1/22
·  Hawaiian Electric President and Chief Executive Officer, 2/20 to 12/21
·  Hawaiian Electric Director, 2/20 to 12/21
·  Hawaiian Electric Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, 1/17 to 2/20
·  Hawaiian Electric Vice President, System Operation, 5/14 to 12/16
·  Hawaiian Electric Vice President, Energy Resources and Operations, 1/13 to 4/14
·  Hawaiian Electric Vice President, Energy Resources, 8/10 to 12/12
·  Hawaiian Electric Manager, Resource Acquisition Department, 3/09 to 8/10
·  Hawaiian Electric Manager, Energy Projects Department, 5/04 to 3/09
·  Hawaiian Electric Manager, Customer Installations Department, 1/03 to 5/04
·  Hawaiian Electric Manager, Environmental Department, 4/98 to 12/02
·  Hawaiian Electric Principal Environmental Scientist, 1/97 to 4/98
·  Hawaiian Electric Senior Environmental Scientist, 5/96 to 12/96
·  Hawaiian Electric Environmental Scientist, 8/93 to 5/96
Scott T. DeGhetto 62 HEI Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, since 3/25
·   HEI Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 10/23 to 2/25
·   Prior to joining the Company in October 2023:  Moelis & Company, Managing Director, Power, 
Utilities & Renewable Energy, 2011-2023.
Kurt K. Murao 56 HEI Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer and Corporate Secretary 
since 1/20
·  HEI Vice President - Legal & Administration and Corporate Secretary, 10/16 to 12/19
·  HEI Associate General Counsel, 3/11 to 10/16
Shelee M. T. Kimura 52 Hawaiian Electric President and Chief Executive Officer since 1/22
·  Hawaiian Electric Senior Vice President, Customer Service and Public Affairs, 3/21 to 12/21
·  Hawaiian Electric Senior Vice President, Customer Service, 2/19 to 3/21
·  Hawaiian Electric Senior Vice President, Business Development & Strategic Planning, 1/17 to 2/19
·  Hawaiian Electric Vice President, Corporate Planning & Business Development, 5/14 to 1/17
·  HEI Director, Investor Relations, Strategic Planning & Budget, 11/09 to 5/14
·  HEI Manager, Corporate Finance and Investments, 8/04 to 11/09
Family relationships; executive arrangements
There are no family relationships between any HEI executive officer and any other HEI executive officer or any HEI 
director or director nominee. There are no arrangements or understandings between any HEI executive officer and any other 
person pursuant to which such executive officer was selected.
28
PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
HEI:
Certain of the information required by this item is disclosed in Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
“Equity compensation plan information” under “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters” of this Form 10-K. 
HEI’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “HE.” As of February 17, 2026, 
HEI had 2,663 registered shareholders (i.e., holders of record of HEI common stock), 17,477 DRIP participants and total record 
shareholders of 20,140. The HEI Board of Directors evaluates the dividend quarterly and considers many factors in the 
evaluation including, but not limited to, the Company’s results of operations, the long-term prospects for the Company, and the 
current and expected future economic conditions. In August 2023, due to the potential impact from the Maui windstorm and 
wildfires, the HEI Board of Directors voted to suspend the quarterly cash dividend, starting after the second quarter of 2023 
dividend. 
Purchases of HEI common shares were made on the open market during the fourth quarter to satisfy the requirements of 
certain plans as follows:
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Period*
Total Number
of Shares 
Purchased **
 
Average
Price Paid
per Share **
 Total Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced Plans 
or Programs
Maximum Number (or Approximate 
Dollar Value) of Shares that May 
Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans 
or Programs
October 1 to 31, 2025  16,006 $ 11.39 — NA
November 1 to 30, 2025  13,920  11.58 — NA
December 1 to 31, 2025  22,278  11.81 — NA
Total  52,204 — NA
NA  Not applicable.
*  Trades (total number of shares purchased) are reflected in the month in which the order is placed.
**  The purchases were made to satisfy the requirements of the HEI Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (DRIP) and the 
Hawaiian Electric Industries Retirement Savings Plan (HEIRSP), for shares purchased for cash or by the reinvestment of dividends by 
participants under those plans and none of the purchases were made under publicly announced repurchase plans or programs. Average 
prices per share are calculated exclusive of any commissions payable to the brokers making the purchases for the DRIP and the HEIRSP. 
Of the “Total number of shares purchased,” 6,547 of the 16,006 shares, 4,952 of the 13,920 shares and 10,107 of the 22,278 shares were 
purchased for the DRIP; the remaining shares were purchased for the HEIRS. The repurchased shares were issued for the accounts of the 
participants under registration statements registering the shares issued under these plans.
Hawaiian Electric:
Since a corporate restructuring on July 1, 1983, all the common stock of Hawaiian Electric has been held solely by its 
parent, HEI. Although Hawaiian Electric’s common stock is registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, all such 
outstanding common stock is owned by HEI and there is no established public trading market for Hawaiian Electric’s common 
stock. Accordingly, information required with respect to “Market information” and “holders” is not applicable to Hawaiian 
Electric.
The dividends declared and paid to HEI on Hawaiian Electric’s common stock for the quarters of 2025 and 2024 were as 
follows:
Quarters ended 2025 2024
(in thousands)
March 31 $ — $ 13,000 
June 30  10,000  13,000 
September 30  10,000  — 
December 31  10,000  — 
Total $ 30,000 $ 26,000 
Also, see “Liquidity and capital resources” in HEI’s MD&A.
See the discussion of regulatory and other restrictions on dividends or other distributions in Note 15 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
ITEM 6. [RESERVED]
HEI and Hawaiian Electric: Not applicable.
29
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS
HEI and Hawaiian Electric (in the case of Hawaiian Electric, only the information related to Hawaiian Electric and its 
subsidiaries):
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes 
that appear in Item 8 of this report. For information on factors that may cause HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s actual future 
results to differ from those currently contemplated by the relevant forward-looking statements, see “Cautionary Note 
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this report and “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. The general discussion of 
HEI’s consolidated results should be read in conjunction with the Electric utility discussion that follows. 
HEI Consolidated
Executive overview and strategy.  HEI is a holding company with operations primarily focused on Hawaii’s electric utility 
sector after selling its bank operations on December 31, 2024. In 2017, HEI formed Pacific Current to make investments in 
non-regulated renewable energy and sustainable infrastructure projects. On December 30, 2024, HEI, ASB, and ASB Hawaii, a 
wholly owned subsidiary of HEI and ASB’s parent holding company, entered into investment agreements to sell 90.1% of the 
common stock of ASB to various investors, including certain ASB officers and directors of ASB. The sale transaction closed on 
December 31, 2024 and no investor acquired more than 9.9% of the common stock of ASB. The proceeds from the sale were 
used to repay a ratable portion of each of HEI’s senior notes in April 2025. Subsequent to the sale, HEI has one reportable 
segment: Electric utility. HEI and its other subsidiaries which are not reportable segments are grouped and reported as an “All 
Other” non-reportable segment.
Electric utility.  Hawaiian Electric, Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric (Utilities) are regulated operating electric 
public utilities engaged in the production, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity on the islands of Oahu; 
Hawaii; and Maui, Lanai and Molokai, respectively.
All Other.  The All Other segment primarily comprises the results of Pacific Current, which invested in non-regulated clean 
energy and sustainable infrastructure in the State of Hawaii to help reach the state’s sustainability goals, and HEI’s corporate-
level operating, general and administrative expenses. Subsequent to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, HEI and Pacific Current 
have suspended new investments and undertook a comprehensive review of strategic options for the assets of Pacific Current. 
As part of HEI’s comprehensive review of strategic options for Pacific Current, all investments of Pacific Current that were 
made through its subsidiaries were sold in 2025, except for Mahipapa, its remaining operating subsidiary which is in the 
process of being sold. The All Other segment also includes ASB Hawaii, which previously owned ASB, and a 40% interest in 
GLST1, an entity created for the specific purpose of holding HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s first liability installment payment 
pursuant to the settlement agreements to settle the tort-related claims in the litigation arising out of the Maui windstorm and 
wildfires.
A major focus of HEI’s financial strategy is to grow core earnings/profitability at the Utilities in a controlled risk manner 
and optimize operating, capital and tax efficiencies in order to support its dividend and deliver shareholder value. HEI also 
continues to work on strategic financing plans to raise capital necessary to fund the settlement of wildfire tort claims.
Recent developments.  See also “Recent developments” in Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A and Note 2 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements which includes recent updates and disclosures relating to the Maui windstorm and wildfires.
On September 5, 2025, HEI and Hawaiian Electric each amended their senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the HEI 
Revolving Facility and the Hawaiian Electric Revolving Facility, respectively) resulting in increased borrowing capacities and 
available liquidity. HEI increased its revolving commitments available under the HEI Revolving Facility to $300 million from 
$175 million and extended the termination date to September 5, 2030 from May 14, 2027. Hawaiian Electric increased its 
revolving commitments available under the Hawaiian Electric Revolving Facility to $300 million from $200 million and 
extended the termination date to September 4, 2026, subject to an automatic extension to the earlier of (i) such date specified in 
a final order or approval of the PUC and (ii) if such order or approval is obtained, September 5, 2030. The Hawaiian Electric 
Revolving Facility also allows for commitment increases of up to an additional $75 million, subject to customary conditions. 
Refer to Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional terms of the amended credit facilities.
In addition, on September 18, 2025, Hawaiian Electric issued $500 million in unsecured senior notes with an interest rate 
of 6.00% and maturing on October 1, 2033 (refer to Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional terms of the 
unsecured senior notes). A portion of the proceeds was used to repay the outstanding balance of the Utilities’ revolving and 
term loan facilities and the remaining proceeds are intended to be used to 1) finance capital expenditures, 2) repay long-term 
debt and short-term debt used to finance or refinance capital expenditures, and 3) reimburse funds used for the payment of 
capital expenditures.
30
In June 2025, the Utilities submitted a request with the PUC to terminate or suspend the ATRs. Beginning in 2024 and 
continuing into 2026, HEI has embarked on a strategy to divest all of its affiliated companies other than the Utilities, intending 
for the Utilities to be HEI’s sole operating companies. Termination of the ATRs would allow implementation of a corporate 
integration, under which all HEI employees would move to Hawaiian Electric. A few officer positions would manage and 
operate both HEI and Hawaiian Electric (dual-hatted executives) and the HEI and Hawaiian Electric boards of directors would 
be composed of a single set of individuals. In September 2025, the PUC dismissed the request without prejudice. In its order, 
the PUC provided guidance on the topics to be addressed in any future request. On October 31, 2025 HEI and Hawaiian 
Electric filed a revised request with the PUC to terminate or suspend the ATRs. After responding to information requests from 
the Consumer Advocate, the Consumer Advocate issued its statement of position on February 4, 2026. The Consumer Advocate 
supported the approval of the request with the condition that before any recovery of expenses related to HEI, the Utilities 
should give the Consumer Advocate and the PUC advance notice of likely changes to recovery. HEI and Hawaiian Electric 
informed the PUC that the docket was ready for decision making on February 5, 2026.
Following a hearing on December 17, 2025, at which the court orally granted final approval of the Class Settlement 
Agreement and no class member objected, the Maui Circuit Court entered a written order granting such final approval on 
January 26, 2026. The deadline to file appeals from that order was February 25, 2026, and as of February 26, 2026, no appeal 
appeared on the docket. As it appears no party appealed the final approval of the Class Settlement Agreement, it appears that 
such final approval order is now final and unappealable.
The tort Settlement Agreements do not resolve claims with insurers who have asserted or could assert subrogation claims in 
separate lawsuits, and such insurers are not parties to the Settlement Agreements, but resolving such claims in the manner set 
forth in the Settlement Agreements (summarized below) is a condition that must be satisfied before any payment is due from 
the defendants. On December 30, 2025, the court entered judgment in favor of the defendants in the two principal direct 
subrogation actions brought by various insurers as to all direct subrogation claims except for 16 such claims associated with 
insureds who had opted out of the class settlement and had not yet settled. On January 21, 2026, certain plaintiff insurers 
appealed the grant of summary judgment in these two actions. No briefing schedules in these appeals have been set. On 
November 5, 2025, the parties signed a binding term sheet to settle the Securities Action (the Securities Action Term Sheet) 
following negotiations facilitated by a mediator. On January 5, 2026, the parties executed a definitive stipulation of settlement 
(the Securities Action Stipulation of Settlement) that will provide for the complete resolution of the Securities Action in 
exchange for a payment by the Company of $47.8 million as part of the overall settlement described below. The settlement of 
the Securities Action is conditioned on, among other things, approval by the boards of the Company and Hawaiian Electric; the 
finalization and court approval of the Securities Actions stipulation of settlement; the finalization by February 26, 2026 and 
subsequent court approval of the stipulation of settlement in the Derivative Actions (defined and discussed below); and entry of 
a judgment of dismissal following final court approval. In connection with the settlement of the Securities Action, there will be 
no admission of liability by the Company or any defendants and the Company, the defendants, and related persons will receive 
a customary full release of all claims. On February 26, 2026, the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California held a hearing to determine whether to preliminarily approve the Securities Action Stipulation of Settlement. 
Following the hearing, the court indicated that it will issue an order and set a hearing date for the final approval of the 
settlement.
In connection with the execution of the Securities Action Term Sheet, HEI accrued, as of December 31, 2025, 
$47.8 million, and concurrently recorded an insurance reimbursement receivable of an equivalent amount as the recovery of the 
agreed settlement payment under its directors and officers liability insurance policy is deemed probable.
In addition, on November 5, 2025, the parties signed a binding term sheet (the Derivative Litigation Term Sheet) to settle 
all of the outstanding derivative actions described above (the Derivative Actions). The Derivative Litigation Term Sheet was 
signed following negotiations facilitated by a mediator. On December 31, 2025, the parties executed a definitive settlement 
agreement (the Derivative Litigation Settlement Agreement) that provides for a complete resolution of the claims asserted in the 
Derivative Actions in exchange for a payment on behalf of the individual defendants by the Company’s insurers in the amount 
of $100 million, which will be used in part to pay the $47.8 million for the Securities Action Stipulation of Settlement and fees 
and expenses for plaintiffs’ counsel. The settlement of the Derivative Actions is conditioned on, among other things, the 
approval by the boards of HEI and Hawaiian Electric (including their independent directors) of the Derivative Litigation 
Settlement Agreement; final court approval of the Derivative Litigation Settlement Agreement; and entry of final judgment and 
orders of dismissal in the Derivative Actions. The plaintiffs’ counsel intends to request court approval for attorneys’ fees of 
25% of the settlement proceeds, plus expenses not to exceed $475,000. In connection with the settlement of the Derivative 
Actions, there will be no admissions of liability, and the defendants and related persons will receive a customary full release of 
all claims. On March 9, 2026, the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii is scheduled to hold a hearing to 
determine whether to preliminarily approve the Derivative Litigation Settlement Agreement.
The Derivative Litigation Settlement Agreement calls for the settlement to be fully funded by the Company’s directors and 
officers liability insurance policies. As noted above, $47.8 million of the $100 million total will be used to fund the settlement 
31
of the Securities Action. The remaining amount, any award in the Derivative Actions for the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and 
expenses, and payment of other settlement-related expenses provided for in the term sheet, is accounted for as a contingent gain 
which will be recognized when realized or realizable.
On February 13, 2026, Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc., Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., and Maui Electric Company, 
Limited (collectively, the Hawaiian Electric Plaintiffs) filed suit against five of their insurers: Defendants XL Insurance 
Company of America, Inc., Allianz Global Risks US Insurance Company, the Princeton Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance 
Company, and General Security Indemnity Company of Arizona (the Insurers). The Insurers are commercial property insurers 
that insured the Hawaiian Electric Plaintiffs at the time of the August 2023 Maui windstorm and wildfires. The Insurers have 
acknowledged coverage under the policies at issue for loss or damage to the Hawaiian Electric Defendants’ property and have 
paid a portion of the companies’ losses. However, the parties dispute the extent of the damage, the nature of coverage, and 
apportionment under the policies. Therefore, the Hawaiian Electric Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief regarding the extent of the 
Insurers’ obligations under the policies, as well as a determination that the Insurers have breached the policies.
Sustainability.  At HEI, sustainability principles have long been embedded as applicable within the Company’s activities and 
are integral to the Company’s efforts to create value for all of its stakeholders. With all of its operations isolated in the middle 
of the Pacific Ocean, the Company’s long-term health and financial performance are inextricably linked with the strength of the 
Hawaii economy, its communities, and the environment. That is why long-term shareholder and broader stakeholder value are 
both served by the Company’s efforts to serve as a catalyst for a better Hawaii. 
In 2021, the Company identified a number of priorities that reflect the essential connection between the health of Hawaii’s 
environment, economy and communities and HEI’s long-term success. Those sustainability priorities included:
• decarbonizing the Company’s operations and the broader Hawaii economy;
• promoting Hawaii’s economic health and improving affordability for all residents;
• ensuring resilience, including safety, as the Company adapts to evolving climate dynamics, which are exacerbating 
conditions that can lead to increasing risk of droughts, severe storms, flooding, wildfires and other extreme weather 
events and natural disasters;
• maintaining resilience as the Company navigates the clean energy transition;
• advancing digitalization of the Company’s operations to better serve customers and increase efficiency while protecting 
against cyber-security challenges;
• promoting inclusion both within the Company and in the ways the Company interacts with and impacts external 
stakeholders;
• increasing employee engagement; and 
• identifying and integrating climate-related risks and opportunities throughout the Company’s planning and decision-
making. 
The Company has integrated sustainability considerations as appropriate into governance structures, strategies and risk 
management. This includes:
• full HEI Board review of sustainability-related strategies, Audit & Risk Committee oversight of sustainability-related 
risks, Compensation & Human Capital Management Committee responsibility for sustainability-related compensation 
matters and human capital management and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee responsibility for 
ensuring an appropriate board governance framework is in place with respect to sustainability.
• robust sustainability and risk management expertise among board members, including directors with direct experience 
in renewable energy, policy and strategy in the context of evolving climate dynamics, and risk and environmental 
management.
• sustainability goals incorporated as part of HEI and Utility executive incentive compensation as appropriate.
• sustainability considerations explicitly woven into strategic planning efforts and enterprise risk management processes.
The Company is committed to transparency and providing information to allow customers, community leaders, investors 
and other stakeholders to understand how the Company’s strategies and operations advance sustainability and long-term 
stakeholder value creation. 
The Company issued its first consolidated sustainability report in September 2020. The report was aligned with 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board guidance. The Company has since further developed its sustainability reporting to 
include disclosures regarding risks and opportunities related to evolving climate dynamics, as well as associated risk 
management and governance processes, based on recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures. It has also outlined key impacts for the Company under two climate scenarios, including a scenario targeted to 
limit global temperature rise to two degrees Celsius or lower. The Company’s most recent reports include HEI’s enterprise-
32
wide GHG emissions inventory. Net enterprise-wide GHG emissions in measured categories have decreased over time, driven 
largely by reductions in the utility’s generation-related emissions intensity. The Company’s sustainability reports can be found 
at www.hei.com/sustainability.
HEI consolidated results of operations.
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 2025 % change 2024 % change 2023
Revenues $ 3,087  (4) $ 3,220  (2) $ 3,288 
Operating income (loss)  235 NM  (1,707) NM  275 
Income (loss) from continuing operations for common stock $ 123 NM $ (1,323) NM $ 146 
Income (loss) from discontinued operations1  —  100  (103) NM  53 
Net income (loss) for common stock $ 123 NM $ (1,426) NM $ 199 
Net income (loss) by segment:    
Electric utility $ 168 NM $ (1,226) NM $ 194 
Other  (45)  53  (96)  (100)  (48) 
Income (loss) from continuing operations for common stock $ 123 NM $ (1,323) NM $ 146 
Continuing operations - Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.71 NM $ (10.42) NM $ 1.33 
Discontinued operations - Basic earnings (loss) per common share1  —  100  (0.81) NM  0.49 
Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 0.71 NM $ (11.23) NM $ 1.82 
Continuing operations - Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.71 NM $ (10.42) NM $ 1.33 
Discontinued operations - Diluted earnings (loss) per common share1  —  100  (0.81) NM  0.48 
Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.71 NM $ (11.23) NM $ 1.81 
Dividends per share $ —  — $ —  (100) $ 1.08 
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (millions)  172.6  36  126.9  16  109.7 
Dividend payout ratio  —%   —%   59% 
1   Includes the results of ASB’s operations through the date of the sale of the common shares, and the loss on the sale of the common shares. 
See Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Note: Totals may not foot due to rounding.
In 2025, income (loss) from continuing operations for HEI common stock increased to $123 million compared to $(1,323) 
million in 2024, due to $1,395 million lower net income in 2024 at the Utilities as a result of recording $1,875 million of 
provision, net, for wildfire tort-related claims in 2024. In 2024, income (loss) from continuing operations for HEI common 
stock decreased to $(1,323) million compared to $146 million in 2023, due to $(1,420) million lower net income at the Utilities 
as a result of recording $1,875 million of provision, net, for wildfire tort-related claims in 2024. See “Electric utility” and “HEI 
Consolidated—All Other segment” sections below for additional information on year-to-year fluctuations. 
The Company’s effective tax rate (combined federal and state income tax rates) was 24% (tax expense) in 2025, compared 
to 26% (tax benefit) in 2024. The Company’s effective tax rate was lower than 2024 primarily due to the substantial pre-tax loss 
in 2024 resulting from the Utilities’ accrual of the loss contingencies related to the wildfire tort-related claims and because the 
impact of permanent items had a smaller impact on the effective tax rate in 2024, partially offset by recapture of investment tax 
credits and lower research and development tax credit claims in 2025.
33
Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses, net.  The Company’s incremental expenses related to the Maui windstorm 
and wildfires, as discussed in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 
and 2023 were as follows:
Year ended December 31, 2025
(in thousands)
Electric 
utility
All Other 
segment
HEI 
Consolidated
Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses:
Legal expenses $ 15,685 $ 8,698 $ 24,383 
Outside services expense  —  135  135 
Wildfire securities-related claims  —  47,750  47,750 
Other expense  23,295  522  23,817 
Interest expense  2,543  848  3,391 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses  41,523  57,953  99,476 
Insurance recoveries1  (1,129)  (54,049)  (55,178) 
Deferral treatment approved by the PUC2  (27,826)  —  (27,826) 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses, net of insurance 
recoveries and approved deferral treatment $ 12,568 $ 3,904 $ 16,472 
Year ended December 31, 2024
(in thousands)
Electric 
utility
All Other 
segment
HEI 
Consolidated5
Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses:
Legal expenses $ 51,406 $ 18,373 $ 69,779 
Outside services expense  8,500  2,514  11,014 
Wildfire tort-related claims3  1,915,000  —  1,915,000 
Other expense4  32,753  2,650  35,403 
Interest expense  11,168  3,666  14,834 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses  2,018,827  27,203  2,046,030 
Insurance recoveries  (85,781)  (8,918)  (94,699) 
Deferral treatment approved by the PUC2  (37,960)  —  (37,960) 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses, net of insurance 
recoveries and approved deferral treatment $ 1,895,086 $ 18,285 $ 1,913,371 
Year ended December 31, 2023
(in thousands)
Electric 
utility
All Other 
segment
HEI 
Consolidated5
Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses:
Legal expenses $ 24,737 $ 9,232 $ 33,969 
Outside services expense  10,532  1,492  12,024 
Wildfire tort-related claims  75,000  —  75,000 
Other expense  3,316  203  3,519 
Interest expense  1,223  1,377  2,600 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses  114,808  12,304  127,112 
Insurance recoveries  (98,613)  (5,967)  (104,580) 
Deferral treatment approved by the PUC2  (14,692)  —  (14,692) 
Total Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses, net of insurance 
recoveries and approved deferral treatment $ 1,503 $ 6,337 $ 7,840 
1 HEI consolidated includes insurance recovery related to the proposed settlement of the securities class action of $47.8 million for 2025. Also, includes 
adjustments related to costs that are no longer probable of recovery under the insurance policies. For 2025, HEI consolidated and Electric utility adjustments 
amount to $7.6 million of which, $4.5 million were deferred to a regulatory asset, and are reported on the line “Deferral treatment approved by the PUC.”
2 Related to the PUC’s order, received on December 27, 2023, approving deferred accounting treatment for the Utilities’ incremental non-labor expenses 
related to the August 2023 Maui windstorm and wildfires incurred through December 31, 2024. Pursuant to the PUC order received on February 12, 2025, 
34
deferral accounting treatment limited to insurance premiums and outside services and legal costs associated with the asset-based lending facility credit 
agreement incurred in 2025 was granted. Applicable amounts were deferred to a regulatory asset. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. for further discussion of 
regulatory risks. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
3 Represents the provision to record the Utilities’ settlement of all wildfire tort-related legal claims and cross claims as of December 31, 2024. See Note 2 of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 Includes $18.4 million ($16.6 million by the Utilities) pursuant to an agreement to settle indemnification claims asserted by the State of Hawaii, for 2024. 
Also includes $3.5 million accrual related to the Utilities’ share of settlement administration fees for 2024. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
5 Excludes expenses related to discontinued operations amounting to $1.3 million and $11.3 million for 2024 and 2023, respectively.
Note: All Other segment Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses (legal, outside services, wildfire securities-related claims and other) and insurance 
recoveries are included in “Expenses-Other” and interest expense is included in “Interest expense, net” on the HEI and subsidiaries Consolidated Statements 
of Income. See Electric utility section below for more detail.
From August 8, 2023 through December 31, 2025, HEI and its subsidiaries have incurred approximately $2.3 billion of 
Maui windstorm and wildfires related expenses, including the Utilities’ estimate of the losses related to a settlement of all 
wildfire tort-related legal claims and cross claims, the One ‘Ohana Initiative contribution and $47.8 million related to the 
securities class action settlement. Certain of these costs are reimbursable under excess liability insurance, professional liability 
insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance policies. As of December 31, 2025, HEI and its subsidiaries have 
approximately $10 million, nil and $71 million of insurance coverage remaining under the excess liability, professional 
liability, and directors and officers liability policies, respectively, after deducting applicable retention amounts, amounts that 
have been recovered under insurance policies (including the One ‘Ohana Initiative contribution), and amounts expected to be 
recovered for incurred costs, including the securities class action settlement, and recognized as a receivable as of year-end.
With the Company accruing its losses related to a settlement of all wildfire tort-related legal claims and cross claims as of 
December 31, 2025, the Company expects the Electric utility and HEI to use the remaining $10 million of insurance coverage 
under its excess liability policy primarily for legal expenditures, in excess of amounts deferred, in connection with the Maui 
windstorm and wildfires. 
Economic conditions.  
Note: The statistical data in this section is from public third-party sources that management believes to be reliable (e.g., 
Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism (DBEDT), University of Hawaii Economic Research 
Organization (UHERO), U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor and Industrial Relations (DLIR), Hawaii 
Tourism Authority (HTA), Honolulu Board of REALTORS® and national and local news media).
In the fourth quarter of 2025, the average daily passenger count was 2.0% lower than the comparable period in the prior 
year. The recovery in total passenger counts from the low levels in 2020, which occurred under COVID-19 restrictions, thus far 
has been driven by domestic travelers, with international travelers, including Japanese travelers, remaining at lower levels. In 
the fourth quarter, international visitor arrivals (excluding Japan) remained 18.0% below 2019 levels. Due to the weak yen, 
Japanese visitors are 36.6% below 2019 levels.
Hawaii’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in December 2025 was 2.2%, lower than the December 2024 rate of 
3.0%. The national unemployment rate in December 2025 was 4.4%, slightly higher than the December 2024 rate of 4.1%. 
According to a recent forecast by UHERO, issued on December 12, 2025, jobs in the State will increase by 0.5% in 2025 before 
decreasing by 0.3% in 2026.
Hawaii real estate activity through December 2025, as indicated by Oahu’s home resale market, resulted in a 1.5% decrease 
in the median sales price for condominiums and an increase of 3.5% for single-family homes compared to the same period in 
2024. The median single-family home price was $1,100,000 in December 2025, slightly lower than the all-time high of 
$1,185,000, set earlier this year in February 2025. The number of closed sales through December 2025 saw a 1.1% decrease for 
condominiums and a 3.5% increase for single-family residential homes compared to the same period in 2024.
Hawaii’s petroleum product prices relate to the crude oil in international markets. The price of crude oil has decreased 
14.7% over the same quarter in the prior year.
At its December 10, 2025 meeting, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decided to lower the federal funds rate 
target range to 3.5% to 3.75%. The FOMC noted that economic growth has moderated, with job gains slowing and 
unemployment edging up. They further noted that uncertainty around the economic outlook remains elevated, and that they 
remain attentive to risks on both sides of its dual mandate of achieving maximum employment and 2 percent inflation over the 
longer run. 
UHERO forecasts full year 2026 real GDP and real personal income to be flat, a decrease in total visitor arrivals of 1.3%, 
and an unemployment rate of 3.0% for the State. According to UHERO, Hawaii’s economy is edging into a mild recession, 
with tourism in a downturn, likely to result in job losses in 2026. Inflation is also expected to increase as the impacts of tariffs 
35
are reflected in consumer prices. Construction continues to be the only major source of economic strength in Hawaii, supported 
by large federal contracts and ongoing housing and infrastructure needs.
See also “Recent Developments” in the “Electric utility” section below for further discussion of the economic impact of 
recent events.
All Other segment.  The “All Other” business segment (loss)/income includes results of the stand-alone corporate operations 
of HEI, ASB Hawaii, GLST1, and Pacific Current, including the results of Hamakua Energy and the solar and battery energy 
storage system facilities up until the close of their respective sales in 2025.
(in millions) 2025 2024 Change Primary reason(s)
Revenue1 $ 16 $ 13 $ 3 Increase in other sales at Pacific Current subsidiaries.
Operating loss1  (44)  (95)  51 Lower HEI corporate operating loss ($33 million in 2025 vs. $40 
million in 2024) primarily due to $12 million lower Maui windstorm 
and wildfires related costs ($3 million in 2025 vs. $15 million in 
2024), partly offset by increases in insurance and incentive 
compensation expenses. Lower Pacific Current operating loss ($11 
million in 2025 vs. $55 million in 2024) primarily due to $35.2 million 
impairment loss on certain long-lived assets at Pacific Current in the 
prior year, a $4 million impairment loss on damaged assets in a March 
2024 fire at Mahipapa, and Hamakua Energy’s and Mahipapa’s 
facilities being shut down for repairs in the prior year resulting in 
higher expense in the prior year.
Interest expense & 
other, net 
 (24)  (45)  21 Primarily due to lower average long-term debt balances (due to $384 
million paydown in April 2025) in 2025 than in 2024.
Interest income  27  13  14 Primarily due to interest income from the September 2024 common 
stock offering proceeds.
Loss on sale of 
subsidiaries and 
impairment loss on 
assets sold and 
held for sale
 (12)  —  (12) Sale of Pacific Current subsidiaries and impairment loss on Pacific 
Current assets sold and held for sale in the current year.
Income tax benefit  8  31  (23) Lower pretax loss.
Net loss $ (45) $ (96) $ 51 
1  Hamakua Energy’s sales to Hawaii Electric Light (a regulated affiliate) up until the close of its sale on March 10, 2025 are eliminated in 
consolidation. 
Note: Totals may not foot due to rounding.
In late February 2024, Hamakua Energy’s combustion turbine (CT) and its leased combustion turbine (leased CT) 
unexpectedly sustained damages resulting in a plant shut down on Hawaii Island. As a result, in April 2024, Hamakua Energy 
purchased a new CT which was placed into service in June 2024. The leased CT was returned to the lessor and a new leased CT 
had been delivered and placed into service in September 2024 bringing Hamakua Energy back to full capacity. After 
conducting an investigation into the root cause of the damages, it was determined that contaminated fuel led to the turbine 
damages. Pacific Current is currently working with its legal counsel on seeking recovery of its losses related to damages 
sustained to its plant facilities. 
As part of HEI’s comprehensive review of strategic options for certain assets of Pacific Current, on February 7, 2025, 
Pacific Current entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement to sell all the membership interests in Hamakua Holdings, a then 
wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific Current and parent company of Hamakua Energy, to an unaffiliated third party. The sale 
transaction closed on March 10, 2025. As a result of the sale transaction, the Company recorded a pre-tax loss on the sale 
amounting to $13.2 million as of March 31, 2025. The sale of Hamakua Holdings and its subsidiary, Hamakua Energy, does not 
preclude Pacific Current from seeking recovery of its losses related to the aforementioned damages to its plant facilities from 
the fuel supplier.
In March 2024, a fire destroyed the cooling tower at the Mahipapa facility on Kauai. The fire was ignited from a vendor’s 
welding activities being performed on the cooling tower during its scheduled maintenance. As a result, the plant was shut down 
while repairs were being performed. Mahipapa completed repairs to its facility and commenced operations in early December 
2024 and returned to full capacity in the first quarter of 2025. In the first quarter of 2025, Mahipapa received insurance 
proceeds of $1.4 million under its business interruption policy. In addition to working with its insurance company, Mahipapa is 
36
currently working with its legal counsel on seeking reimbursement of its losses related to damages sustained to its plant 
facilities.
In September 2024, Pacific Current recorded a pretax long-lived asset impairment charge of $35.2 million after 
determining it was more-likely-than-not that the long-lived assets of Pacific Current will be sold significantly before the end of 
their previously estimated useful life and that the fair value of certain long-lived assets of Pacific Current were less than its 
carrying value. In addition, HEI forgave its intercompany loan receivable from Mahipapa, including accrued interest, 
amounting to $9.6 million. Concurrently, Mahipapa classified its intercompany loan payable to HEI, including accrued interest, 
of an equivalent amount as an equity contribution. These transactions were accounted for as equity transactions and offset in the 
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impairment charge and intercompany loan transactions were non-cash in nature 
and did not affect the Company’s current liquidity, cash flows or any debt covenants under the Company’s existing credit 
agreements.
As part of HEI’s comprehensive review of strategic options for certain assets of Pacific Current, on August 1, 2025, Pacific 
Current, through an indirect subsidiary, sold all of the membership interests in Mauo, LLC, Alenuihaha Developments, LLC, 
Kaʻieʻie Waho Company, LLC and Upena, LLC. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Liquidity and capital resources.  HEI’s and the Utilities’ future results of operations involve significant risks and 
uncertainties. Factors that could affect HEI’s and the Utilities’ future operating results and could cause actual results to vary 
materially from expectations include, but are not limited to, access to capital, ability to attract and retain key personnel, and 
pending or threatened litigation (including wildfire related litigation noted above).
The Company’s objective continues to be to operate a strong, financially healthy enterprise to empower a thriving future 
for Hawaii. While the fundamentals of its businesses remain strong, the Company took prudent and measured actions to 
reinforce its commitment to serving the community for the long term. Subsequent to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, in 
August 2023, HEI and Hawaiian Electric fully drew down $175 million and $200 million, respectively, on their previously 
existing revolving credit facilities. On September 5, 2025, HEI and Hawaiian Electric each entered into a fourth amended and 
restated credit agreement with a syndicate of eight financial institutions, increasing each of their committed capacities to $300 
million (see Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). As of December 31, 2025, HEI and 
Hawaiian Electric had $20 million and nil, respectively, drawn on their revolving credit facilities and no commercial paper 
outstanding. 
The Company has taken additional prudent measures to strengthen its financial position while continuing to provide 
reliable service to its customers and reinforcing HEI’s commitment to serving the community for the long term, including the 
Utilities entering into an asset-based credit facility in May 2024 that allows the Utilities to borrow up to $250 million (see 
Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements), and HEI registering with the SEC in September 2024 an at-the-market 
offering program under which HEI may offer and sell, from time to time at its sole discretion, its common stock, without par 
value, having an aggregate offering price of up to $250 million. To date, HEI has not sold any common stock under this 
program. In addition, HEI paid down a ratable portion of each of HEI’s senior notes in April 2025 amounting to $384 million, 
using the proceeds from the December 2024 sale of ASB. Additional proactive measures included suspending the quarterly cash 
dividend on HEI’s common stock after payment of the second quarter dividend in September 2023, repaying its revolving credit 
facilities and reducing or eliminating discretionary costs. 
As of December 31, 2025, HEI consolidated had $2.4 billion of long-term debt, of which $125 million is due or expected to 
be repaid within 12 months. In addition, as of December 31, 2025, the Utilities accrued estimated wildfire liabilities of 
approximately $1.92 billion (pre-tax), related to the settlement of the Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal claims (see 
Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). HEI and Hawaiian Electric determined that making payments under the terms 
of the Settlement Agreements in four equal annual installments is the most viable option and have classified the first 
$479 million installment as a current liability based on expected timing of the payment and the remaining $1.44 billion as a 
noncurrent liability on the Company’s and the Utilities’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. To finance the first installment payment, 
in September 2024, HEI completed the sale of 62.2 million shares of common stock. The shares were issued under a 
registration statement registering up to $575 million of common stock. The net proceeds from the sale of common stock 
amounted to approximately $557.7 million. In November 2024, HEI transferred the first installment payment to GLST1, a 
wholly owned subsidiary created for the specific purpose of holding the first installment payment pursuant to the settlement of 
the Maui windstorm and wildfire tort-related legal claims (see Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). The cash for 
the first installment payment is classified as restricted cash on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2025.
37
At December 31, 2025, the Company’s consolidated total available liquidity was approximately $1,572 million. The 
following table provides the components of available liquidity at December 31, 2025. See “Liquidity and capital resources” in 
Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A below for components of its available liquidity under existing credit facilities as of December 31, 
2025.
As of December 31, 2025
(in millions) Capacity Outstanding Undrawn
Electric utility
Total credit, excluding standing commitment letter with HEI1 $ 540 $ — $ 540 
Total available credit - Electric utility2 $ 540 
All Other
Unsecured revolving line of credit $ 300 $ 20 $ 280 
At-the-market program  250  —  250 
Total credit and other liquidity- All Other  550  20  530 
Total available credit and other liquidity - All Other $ 530 
Consolidated cash and cash equivalents  502 
Total available liquidity $ 1,572 
1  Pursuant to an HEI and Hawaiian Electric Intercompany Borrowing and Investment Policy which provides Hawaiian Electric a borrowing 
commitment of $75 million. Hawaiian Electric currently has no borrowings under this policy. See Note 6 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for a description of the HEI and Hawaiian Electric Intercompany Borrowing and Investment Policy.
2 As of December 31, 2025, the Utilities had no commercial paper outstanding. Hawaii Electric Light and Maui Electric had no short-term 
borrowings from Hawaiian Electric but had long-term intercompany loans from Hawaiian Electric in the amount of $25 million and $90 
million, respectively, as of December 31, 2025.
Management believes with the Company’s cash and cash equivalents amount of $502 million and GLST1’s restricted cash 
amount of $479 million, both as of December 31, 2025, the available capacity on Hawaiian Electric’s ABL Facility, HEI’s and 
Hawaiian Electric’s increased borrowing capacities of their unsecured lines of credit, and additional liquidity under HEI’s 
registered at-the-market offering program, the Company has adequate cash to meet its financial obligations and sustain 
operations in the short term, including available sufficient liquidity to fund the first installment of the settlement of wildfire tort 
claims (expected to be made no sooner than early 2026) and its other cash obligations for the next 12 months following the 
issuance of its financial statements. 
The Company expects that liquidity will continue to be impacted in the long term primarily due to the remaining liability 
payments to settle wildfire claims; the result of the August 2023 downgrades of their credit ratings to below investment grade 
which limits the Company from accessing unsecured, short-term borrowings and continues to restrict access to the capital 
markets and other sources of debt and equity financing on favorable terms; and higher working capital requirements resulting 
from inflation and elevated fuel prices. Although the Company has raised sufficient cash to pay the first installment of the 
settlement of wildfire tort claims, the Company is currently working with its financial advisors on a financing plan to raise the 
additional capital necessary to fund the remaining settlement of wildfire tort claims. While management believes the Company 
will be able to raise the necessary capital, there is no assurance that management’s plans will be successful. If the financing 
plans are unsuccessful, the Company may need to consider other strategic alternatives. See further discussion in “Risk Factors” 
in Item 1A.
If further liquidity is deemed necessary in the short term, Hawaiian Electric could also reduce the pace of capital spending 
related to non-essential projects, manage O&M expenses, seek borrowings on a secured basis, and explore asset sales.
HEI Consolidated material cash requirements.  Material cash requirements of HEI Consolidated include: payments related 
to settlement of tort-related legal claims and cross claims; Utility related capital expenditures (including capital expenditures 
related to wildfires and wildfire mitigations), labor and benefits costs, O&M expenses, legal and consulting costs related to the 
Maui windstorm and wildfires, fuel and purchase power costs, and debt and interest payments; HEI related labor and benefits 
costs, debt and interest payments and legal and consulting costs related to the Maui windstorm and wildfires; and HEI equity 
contributions to support Pacific Current’s remaining operating subsidiary.
Forecasted HEI consolidated “net cash used in investing activities” consists primarily of the net capital expenditures of the 
Utilities principally related to maintaining and modernizing the grid to allow for the integration of more renewable energy, 
38
improved customer reliability, greater system efficiency and enhanced resilience. The Utilities’ capital expenditures are 
forecasted to be funded primarily through a combination of retained earnings and proceeds from other sources of debt 
financings (see also discussion regarding other material cash requirements under “Financial Condition–Liquidity and capital 
resources,” contained in the “Electric utility” section below). In the future, if the Company is unable to refinance scheduled 
maturing debt, then debt maturities are expected to be repaid with the proceeds from existing cash on hand, other medium- or 
long-term debt, and/or dividends from subsidiaries. The ability of Hawaiian Electric to pay dividends or make other 
distributions to HEI are subject to contractual and regulatory restrictions (see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). Additional debt and/or equity financing, if available, may be utilized to invest in the Utilities; to pay down 
commercial paper or other short-term borrowings, if any; to pay interest costs; or to fund unanticipated expenditures, such as 
increases in the costs of, or an acceleration of, the construction of capital projects of the Utilities or unanticipated utility capital 
expenditures. In addition, existing debt may be refinanced prior to maturity with additional debt or equity financing (or both).
Certain Maui windstorm and wildfires legal-related costs of HEI and the Utilities are recoverable under $165 million of 
excess liability insurance, $25 million of professional liability insurance, and $145 million of directors and officers liability 
insurance policies (see further information in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). As of December 31, 2025, HEI 
and the Utilities have approximately $10 million, nil and $71 million of insurance coverage remaining under the excess 
liability, professional liability, and directors and officers liability policies, respectively, after deducting applicable retention 
amounts, amounts that have been recovered under insurance policies (including the One ‘Ohana Initiative contribution), and 
amounts expected to be recovered for incurred costs, including the securities class action settlement, and recognized as a 
receivable as of year-end.
Selected short-term and long-term contractual obligations and commitments.  Information about payments under the 
specified contractual obligations and commitments of HEI and its subsidiaries was as follows:
December 31, 2025 Payments due by period
(in millions) 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
After 
five 
years Total
Contractual obligations      
Long-term debt1 $ 125 $ 100 $ 139 $ 35 $ 189 $ 1,835 $ 2,423 
Interest on long-term debt2  111  109  102  99  92  673  1,186 
Maui Windstorm and Wildfire Settlement Agreements3  530  479  479  478  —  —  1,966 
Operating and finance leases
PPAs classified as leases  60  60  55  55  55  793  1,078 
Other leases4  16  11  6  7  7  13  60 
Hawaiian Electric open purchase order obligations5  226  61  43  6  6  26  368 
Hawaiian Electric fuel oil purchase obligations (estimate 
based on fuel oil price at December 31)  6  —  —  —  —  —  6 
Hawaiian Electric purchase power obligations–minimum 
fixed capacity charges not classified as leases  117  121  120  120  120  946  1,544 
Liabilities for uncertain tax positions  —  5  —  —  —  —  5 
Total (estimated) $ 1,191 $ 946 $ 944 $ 800 $ 469 $ 4,286 $ 8,636 
1 Amounts do not include $54 million related to Mahipapa debt which are included in liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2025. See Note 3 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
2 Amounts do not include $4 million of interest on Mahipapa debt which is included in liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2025. See Note 3 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
3 As of December 31, 2025, HEI and Hawaiian Electric recorded $48 million and $40 million, respectively, of insurance reimbursement receivable related to 
the securities class action settlement and tort settlement, respectively. See Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 Amounts do not include $6 million related to Mahipapa leases which are included in liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2025. See Note 3 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
5 Includes contractual obligations and commitments for capital expenditures and expense amounts.
The table above does not include other categories of obligations and commitments, such as deferred taxes, certain trade 
payables, amounts that will become payable in future periods under collective bargaining and other employment agreements 
and employee benefit plans and potential refunds of amounts collected from ratepayers (e.g., under the earnings sharing 
mechanism). As of December 31, 2025, the fair value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of the Company’s 
retirement benefit plans exceeded the retirement benefit plans’ benefit obligation. Minimum funding requirements for 
retirement benefit plans have not been included in the table above. See Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
2026 estimated retirement benefit plan obligations and contributions. 
39
See “Developments in renewable energy efforts—Biofuel sources” in Hawaiian Electric’s MD&A for additional 
information on fuel oil purchase obligations. See Notes 4 and 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of 
power purchase commitments and operating leases obligations, respectively.
Operating activities provided net cash of $391 million in 2025, $487 million in 2024 and $551 million in 2023, of which 
operating activities from continuing operations provided net cash of $391 million in 2025, $428 million in 2024 and $443 
million in 2023. Investing activities used net cash of $322 million in 2025 and $257 million in 2023 and provided net cash of 
$258 million in 2024, of which investing activities from continuing operations used net cash of $322 million in 2025, $334 
million in 2024 and $436 million in 2023. In 2025, 2024 and 2023, net cash used in investing activities from continuing 
activities was primarily due to capital expenditures.
Financing activities used net cash of $331 million in 2025 and provided net cash of $155 million in 2024 and $196 million 
in 2023, of which financing activities from continuing operations used net cash of $331 million in 2025 and provided net cash 
of $498 million in 2024 and $203 million in 2023. In 2025, net cash used in financing activities included repayment of long-
term debt, revolving credit facilities and short-term debt and redemption of preferred stock, partly offset by issuance of long-
term debt. In 2024, net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations included issuance of common stock 
(common stock offering) and increase in short-term debt, partly offset by repayment of long-term debt and revolving credit 
facilities. In 2023, net cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations included proceeds from revolving credit 
facilities, long-term debt and short-term debt, partly offset by repayment of long-term and short-term debt, net decreases in 
short-term borrowings and payment of common and preferred stock dividends. 
Other than capital contributions from their parent company, intercompany services (and related intercompany payables and 
receivables), Hawaiian Electric’s periodic short-term borrowings from HEI (and related interest), if any, and the payment of 
dividends to HEI, the electric utility is largely autonomous in its operating, investing and financing activities. (See the electric 
utility segment’s discussion of its cash flows in its “Liquidity and capital resources” section below.) During 2025, Hawaiian 
Electric paid cash dividends to HEI of $30 million.
 In August 2023, due to the potential impact from the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the HEI Board of Directors voted to 
suspend the quarterly cash dividend, starting after the second quarter 2023 dividend and has not declared a cash dividend since 
that time. This action was intended to allow the Company to provide additional liquidity and allocate cash to rebuilding and 
restoring power and help ensure a strong future for the Utilities. In May 2025, after a temporary suspension of Hawaiian 
Electric’s quarterly cash dividend to HEI that began with the second quarter 2024 dividend, the Hawaiian Electric Board of 
Directors approved a $10 million quarterly dividend for each of the first, second and third quarters of 2025. This decision was 
made after considering several factors, including the continued progress of the Maui windstorm and wildfire settlement, the 
Utilities’ results of operations and the Utilities’ liquidity position.
A portion of the net assets of Hawaiian Electric is not available for transfer to HEI in the form of dividends, loans or 
advances without regulatory approval. In the absence of an unexpected material adverse change in the financial condition of the 
Utilities, such restrictions are not expected to significantly affect the operations of HEI or its ability to meet its debt or other 
cash obligations. See Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The consolidated capital structure of HEI was as follows:
December 31 2025 2024
(dollars in millions)    
Short-term borrowings, net $ —  —% $ 49  1% 
Long-term debt, net, including current portion of long-term debt, net  2,410  60  2,800  64 
Preferred stock of subsidiaries  —  —  34  1 
Common stock equity  1,606  40  1,479  34 
 $ 4,016  100% $ 4,362  100% 
Prior to the Maui windstorm and wildfires, HEI utilized short-term debt, typically commercial paper, to support normal 
operations, to refinance commercial paper, to retire long-term debt, to pay dividends and for other temporary requirements, 
including short-term financing needs of its subsidiaries. HEI also periodically makes short-term loans to Hawaiian Electric to 
meet Hawaiian Electric’s cash requirements, including the funding of loans by Hawaiian Electric to Hawaii Electric Light and 
Maui Electric, but no such short-term loans to Hawaiian Electric were outstanding as of December 31, 2025. Historically, HEI 
also periodically utilized unsecured long-term debt, to fund investments in and loans to its subsidiaries to support their capital 
improvement or other requirements, to repay long-term and short-term indebtedness and for other corporate purposes. The 
downgrades of HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings have negatively impacted each of HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s 
ability to access lower cost sources of capital.
See Notes 6 and 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a brief description of the Company’s loans. 
40
Credit ratings.  On May 28, 2025, June 4, 2025 and June 27, 2025, Moody’s, Fitch and S&P, respectively, upgraded HEI’s 
credit ratings. As of February 17, 2026, the Fitch, Moody’s and S&P ratings of HEI were as follows:
 Fitch Moody’s S&P
From1 To From1 To From1 To
Long-term issuer default, long-term and issuer credit, respectively B B+ B1 Ba3 B- B+
Short-term issuer default, commercial paper and commercial 
paper, respectively
B B NP NP B B
Outlook Stable Positive Stable Positive Negative Watch 
Positive
1  As of December 31, 2024. In March 2025, S&P revised HEI’s outlook to “Positive” from “Negative” and affirmed the “B-” issuer credit rating.
Note: The above ratings reflect only the view, at the time the ratings are issued or affirmed, of the applicable rating agency, from whom an explanation of the 
significance of such ratings may be obtained. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any securities; such ratings may be subject to revision 
or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies; and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
The Company’s credit rating downgrades related to the Maui windstorm and wildfires will continue to adversely impact its 
ability to access lower cost sources of capital. Through the sale of common stock in September 2024, the Company has raised 
sufficient cash to pay the first installment of the settlement of wildfire tort claims expected to be made no sooner than early 
2026. The Company is currently working with its financial advisors on a financing plan to raise the additional capital required 
to fund its remaining wildfire tort claims. While management believes the Company will be able to raise the necessary capital, 
there is no assurance that management’s plans will be successful. The potential damages and losses related to the Maui 
windstorm and wildfires and related lawsuits (see further information in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements), the 
suspension of dividends from Hawaiian Electric, the economic impact of higher fuel prices, inflation, higher interest rates, 
tightening of monetary policy and geopolitical situations, create significant uncertainty, and the Company cannot predict the 
extent or duration of these conditions, the future effects that these conditions will have on the Company’s financing plan, cost 
of capital and its ability to access additional capital, or the future impacts on the Company’s financial position, results of 
operations, and cash flows. 
See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of risks and uncertainties. See “Credit ratings” in Hawaiian Electric’s 
MD&A for Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings. The downgrades of HEI’s and Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings impacted the 
Company’s ability to access lower cost sources of capital.
On September 25, 2024, HEI completed the sale of 62.2 million shares of common stock. The shares were issued under a 
registration statement registering up to $575 million of common stock. The net proceeds from the sale of common stock 
amounted to approximately $557.7 million and will be used to fund the Company’s contribution to the expected Maui wildfire 
tort litigation settlement and for general corporate purposes.
On September 19, 2024, HEI filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an at-the-market offering program under 
which HEI may offer and sell, from time to time at its sole discretion, its common stock, without par value, having an aggregate 
offering price of up to $250 million. To date, HEI has not sold any common stock under this program.
There were no new issuances of common stock through the HEIRSP 401(k) Plan in 2025, 2024 or 2023 and HEI satisfied 
the share purchase requirements of the HEIRSP 401(k) Plan through open market purchases of its common stock. There were 
no new issuances of common stock through the Dividend Reinvestment Program (DRIP) from January 1, 2023 through 
September 4, 2023, December 6 through December 31, 2023, in 2025 or in 2024 and HEI satisfied the share purchase 
requirements of the DRIP through open market purchases of its common stock. From September 5 through December 5, 2023, 
HEI satisfied the share purchase requirements of the DRIP through new issuances of approximately 0.5 million shares of 
common stock, amounting to $6.6 million, primarily for participants receiving the September 2023 dividend payment.
Off-balance sheet arrangements.  Although the Company and the Utilities have certain off-balance sheet arrangements, 
management has determined that it has no off-balance sheet arrangements that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a 
current or future effect on the Company’s and the Utilities’ financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or 
expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors, including the 
following types of off-balance sheet arrangements:
1. obligations under guarantee contracts,
2. retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangements that serve as 
credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets,
3. obligations under derivative instruments, and
41
4. obligations under a material variable interest held by the Company or the Utilities in an unconsolidated entity that 
provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the Company or the Utilities, or engages in leasing, 
hedging or research and development services with the Company or the Utilities.
Material estimates and critical accounting policies.  In preparing financial statements, management is required to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.
Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change include the amounts reported for pension and other 
postretirement benefit obligations; contingencies and litigation; income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; and asset 
retirement obligations (AROs). Management considers an accounting estimate to be material if it requires assumptions to be 
made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and changes in the assumptions selected could have a material 
impact on the estimate and on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition.
In accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8040, “Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting 
Policies,” management has identified the accounting policies it believes to be the most critical to the Company’s financial 
statements—that is, management believes that the policies discussed below are both the most important to the portrayal of the 
Company’s results of operations and financial condition, and currently require management’s most difficult, subjective or 
complex judgments. The policies affecting both of the Company’s two principal segments are discussed below and the policies 
affecting just one segment are discussed in the respective segment’s section of “Material estimates and critical accounting 
policies.” Management has reviewed the material estimates and critical accounting policies with the HEI Audit & Risk 
Committee and, as applicable, the Hawaiian Electric Audit & Risk Committee.
For additional discussion of the Company’s accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
for additional discussion of material estimates and critical accounting policies, see the electric utility discussion below under the 
same heading.
Pension and other postretirement benefits obligations.  The Company’s benefit obligations and reported costs of providing 
retirement benefits are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions about future 
experience. For example, retirement benefits costs are impacted by actual employee demographics (including age and 
compensation levels), the level of contributions to the plans, earnings and realized and unrealized gains and losses on plan 
assets, and changes made to the provisions of the plans. Costs may also be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial 
assumptions, including the expected return on plan assets, the discount rate and mortality. The Company’s accounting for 
retirement benefits under the plans in which the employees of the Utilities participate is also adjusted to account for the impact 
of decisions by the PUC. Changes in obligations associated with the factors noted above may not be immediately recognized as 
costs on the income statement, but generally are recognized in future years over the remaining average service period of plan 
participants.
The discount rate used to calculate the Company’s benefit obligations is a significant assumption that affects the 
Company’s benefit obligations. As of December 31, 2025, the discount rates for HEI and the Utilities’ pension and other 
benefits plans were 5.78% and 5.67%, respectively. Based on various assumptions in Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, sensitivities of the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) as 
of December 31, 2025, associated with a change in the discount rate, were as follows and constitute “forward-looking 
statements”:
(dollars in millions)   
Pension benefits   
Discount rate +/-50 $(119)/$133 $(116)/$130
Other benefits  
Discount rate +/-50 $(6)/$7 $(6)/$7
Actuarial assumption
Change in assumption
in basis points
Impact on HEI 
Consolidated
PBO or APBO
Impact on Consolidated 
Hawaiian Electric
PBO or APBO
Also, see Notes 1 and 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Contingencies and litigation.  The Company is subject to proceedings (including PUC proceedings), lawsuits and other 
claims. Management assesses the likelihood of any adverse judgments in or outcomes of these matters as well as potential 
ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is based on an 
analysis of each individual case or proceeding, often with the assistance of outside counsel. The required reserves may change 
42
in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach in dealing with these matters, such as a change in 
settlement strategy.
In general, environmental contamination treatment costs are charged to expense, unless it is probable that the PUC would 
allow such costs to be recovered through future rates, in which case such costs would be capitalized as regulatory assets. Also, 
environmental costs are capitalized if the costs extend the life, increase the capacity, or improve the safety or efficiency of 
property; the costs mitigate or prevent future environmental contamination; or the costs are incurred in preparing the property 
for sale.
As a result of the Maui windstorm and wildfires, HEI and Hawaiian Electric evaluated various financing plans to pay the 
amounts included in the tort-related Settlement Agreements and determined that paying in four equal annual installments is the 
most viable option and aligns with the Companies’ expectations of how the settlement amount will be paid. As of December 31, 
2025, the Utilities have recorded a settlement accrual of $1.92 billion which reflects their best estimate of the loss contingency. 
In addition, as a result of executing final settlement agreements in its securities class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits, 
as of December 31, 2025, HEI recorded a settlement accrual of $47.8 million, and concurrently, recorded an insurance 
reimbursement receivable of an equivalent amount as the recovery of the agreed settlement payment under its directors and 
officers liability insurance policy is deemed probable. Refer to “Recent Developments” and Note 2 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for more information. 
See Notes 1, 2 and 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income taxes.  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are established for the temporary differences between the financial 
reporting bases and the tax bases of the Company’s assets and liabilities using tax rates expected to be in effect when such 
deferred tax assets or liabilities are realized or settled. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the 
generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. 
In 2024, the Company generated a $287.1 million capital loss from the sale of ASB. For federal tax purposes, any excess 
capital loss is first carried back three years and then carried forward for up to five years to offset future capital gains. For 
Hawaii state tax purposes, unused capital losses can only be carried forward for up to five years, with no carryback option 
available. Since capital losses can only be offset against capital gains, the Company believes it is more likely than not that the 
tax benefit of the capital loss on the sale of ASB will not be realized, because there is no expectation of generating capital gains 
and no tax strategies in place to produce capital gains before the loss expires. As of December 31, 2025, the Company’s federal 
and Hawaii capital loss carryforward is $273.1 million and $289.4 million, respectively, with a valuation allowance totaling 
$66.1 million for federal and state, related to the capital loss.
In 2024, the Company agreed to settle the Maui windstorm and wildfires tort-related legal claims on a global basis. This 
nonrecurring settlement will create a net operating loss (NOL) of approximately $1.878 billion, resulting in a total deferred tax 
asset (DTA) of $483.7 million. The Company analyzed the positive and negative evidence of each source of taxable income that 
will allow the DTA to be realized as enumerated in ASC 740. Other than the capital loss carryforward discussed above, the 
Company expects to fully utilize current DTAs that will be generated over the next 17-year period for HEI consolidated and 13-
year period for Hawaiian Electric consolidated, based on estimated income projections (exclusive of future reversals of taxable 
temporary differences). The Company believes that the DTA generated from the nonrecurring settlement, along with historical 
DTAs, will be fully utilized, with the exception of the capital loss carryforward. The Company has generated consistent 
earnings over the past three years exclusive of the nonrecurring settlement. The Company believes that it is more likely than not 
that the Company will realize the benefits of its gross DTAs, other than the capital loss carryforward, including the $483.7 
million DTA recognized as a result of the settlement. If estimated future income projections turn out to be lower, it should be 
noted that the DTA related to the NOL carryforward does not expire.
Management evaluates its potential exposures from tax positions taken that have or could be challenged by taxing 
authorities. These potential exposures result because taxing authorities may take positions that differ from those taken by 
management in the interpretation and application of statutes, regulations and rules. Management considers the possibility of 
alternative outcomes based upon past experience, previous actions by taxing authorities (e.g., actions taken in other 
jurisdictions) and advice from its tax advisors. Management believes that the Company’s provision for tax contingencies is 
reasonable. However, the ultimate resolution of tax treatments disputed by governmental authorities may adversely affect the 
Company’s current and deferred income tax amounts.
See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Following is a discussion of the electric utility segment. Additional segment information is shown in Note 3 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion concerning Hawaiian Electric should be read in conjunction with its 
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
43
Electric utility
Executive overview and strategy.  The Utilities provide electricity on all the principal islands in the State of Hawaii, other 
than Kauai, to approximately 95% of the State’s population, and operate five separate grids. The Utilities’ mission is to 
empower their communities and customers with safe, reliable, resilient, affordable, and clean energy. The goal is to create a 
safe, modern, resilient, flexible, and dynamic electric grid that protects Hawaii from impacts of evolving climate dynamics, 
position the Utilities to achieve the expectations of their customers and communities and earn their trust, and achieve Hawaii’s 
decarbonization goals that are aligned with the statutory goal of 100% renewable portfolio standard and net-negative carbon 
emissions by 2045.
Recent developments.  See also “Recent developments” in HEI’s MD&A and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which includes disclosures relating to Maui windstorm and wildfires.
For the full year 2025, the Utilities generated net income of approximately $168.2 million compared to net loss of 
$1.2 billion in 2024. See “Results of operations” below for variance explanations.
For the full year 2025, kWh sales volume increased 2.5% from 2024 levels. The increase reflects warmer weather as well 
as the continuing economic recovery since the Maui windstorm and wildfires and increased pumping loads as Maui energy 
consumption increased 6.6% from 2024 to 2025.
The price of crude oil has decreased about 14.1% compared to the prior year. The Utilities are able to pass through fuel 
costs to customers and have limited fuel cost exposure through a 2% fuel cost-risk sharing mechanism (approximately $3.7 
million maximum penalty/reward exposure annually).
In December 2025, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased 2.7% over the last 12 months. In Hawaii, the January 2026 
Urban Hawaii (Honolulu) CPI increased 2.4% over the last 12 months. Under the PBR Framework, inflation risk for the 
Utilities is partially mitigated by an Annual Revenue Adjustment (ARA), which is based on a formula that includes a 
compounded and non-compounded portion. 
• The compounded portion of the ARA includes an adjustment for the annual change in inflation based on the estimated 
change in Gross Domestic Product Price Index (GDPPI) for the upcoming year, less a predetermined annual productivity 
factor (currently set at zero), less a 0.22% customer dividend, applied to a basis equal to test year target revenues plus the 
RAM Revenue adjustments in effect prior to the implementation of PBR, plus the prior adjustment year’s compounded 
portion of the ARA. The inflation factor percentage is the consensus projection of annual percentage change in GDPPI for 
the following calendar year published by Blue Chip Economic Indicators each October. For the 2025 calendar year, the 
forecasted 2025 GDPPI was 1.98% (net of the 0.22% customer dividend), measured in October 2024, and became effective 
in rates on January 1, 2025. For the 2026 calendar year, the forecasted 2026 GDPPI was 2.58% (net of the 0.22% customer 
dividend), measured in October 2025, and became effective in rates on January 1, 2026. 
• The non-compounded portion of the ARA includes a subtractive component, representing the management audit 
savings commitment, or refund to customers, which was approved by the PUC for the years 2021 through 2025.
Customer accounts receivable decreased in 2025 by $27 million, or 14% with arrears balance 1-30 days decreasing by 18% 
since December 31, 2024. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily driven by receipt of government arrears. In 
addition, arrears balances have declined to pre-pandemic levels as the Utilities returned to pre-pandemic collection policies, 
except on Maui, where the moratorium on disconnections remain in place. Further at year-end, the Utilities pledged $1 million 
to assist customers with larger arrears balances who may be facing financial hardship, particularly on Maui, and decreased 
accounts receivable accordingly. See “Financial Condition—Liquidity and capital resources” below for additional information.
Regulatory and legislative developments. 
Legislation.  On June 6, 2025, Governor Josh Green signed Senate Bill 1501, now known as Act 191, which allows the 
State to “step-in” for the Utilities in the case of utility financial distress, ensuring project owners receive payment, addressing 
concerns of some independent power producers’ ability to procure low-cost financing for new renewable energy and storage 
projects due to the Utilities’ credit ratings. On July 1, 2025, the Governor signed into law Senate Bill 897, now known as Act 
258, which directs the PUC to study the viability of a wildfire relief fund, establish an aggregate liability cap on economic 
damages from future wildfires and authorizes securitization to finance wildfire safety and resilience infrastructure 
improvements. On July 8, 2025, the Governor signed House Bill 1001, now known as Act 301, which appropriates funds to 
address the State of Hawaii’s settlement of claims related to the Maui wildfire and windstorm tort litigation settlement. Act 258 
is expected to help support the Utilities’ financial stability to move forward, while Act 301 provides a resolution to those 
affected by the Maui windstorm and wildfires and provides assurance for a global settlement to move forward. Act 191 supports 
the Utilities’ ability to procure energy in order to provide customers and communities with safe, reliable and affordable clean 
energy.
44
On July 2, 2025, the Governor signed Senate Bill 589, now known as Act 266. Among other things, Act 266 authorizes 
wheeling of renewable energy and requires the PUC to establish policies and procedures to implement wheeling of renewable 
electricity for a capacity of not more than two megawatts, as well as microgrid service tariffs, by January 1, 2027. Act 266 also 
requires the PUC to establish an installation goal for new customer-sited distributed energy resources and establish tariffs to 
achieve the installation goal and for grid service programs, microgrids, and community-based renewable energy. The Utilities 
are currently assessing the potential impact related to wheeling as the PUC works to establish the provisions and terms for the 
implementation of wheeling in compliance with Act 266. For more information on wheeling, see discussion in “Investigation 
on the establishment of wheeling” below.
The One Big Beautiful Act signed into law by President Trump on July 4, 2025 may impact the ability of the Utilities’ 
recently selected and new wind and solar projects to qualify for federal tax credits. Regulations continue to be developed, so the 
complete scope of potential impacts remains unknown at this time. Any loss in renewable energy tax credits could lead to 
project risk for new wind and solar projects in development and will likely result in higher prices for such projects, developers 
of which rely extensively on federal tax credits to finance such projects. It is also possible that the sunsetting of these tax credits 
will impact the supply chain for projects throughout the U.S. as developers rush to meet the four-year safe harbor timeline. The 
legislature is expected to consider legislation to provide a state tax credit to fill the void left by the expiration of the federal 
solar tax credit. However, due to budget shortfalls, the likelihood of its passage is limited. 
Trade policies.  Impacts to the Utilities from trade policies imposed by the U.S. or its trading partners are uncertain at 
this time. The Utilities estimated that in 2024, more than 90% of the Utilities’ capital goods were domestically sourced. 
However, the Utilities and their independent power producers procure capital goods that flow through global supply chains and 
may include raw materials, sub-components, or components sourced or assembled outside the U.S. Utility capital costs and the 
cost of power procured from independent power producers may increase due to new trade policies and changes in trade policy 
from the U.S. and its trading partners, based on the amount of foreign content of capital goods. It is also possible that trade 
policies could impact commodities and raw materials costs, leading to inflation of utility capital costs indirectly through the 
broader supply chain. Utility-scale battery projects planned by both Hawaiian Electric and independent power producers may 
see significant cost increases or supply chain challenges, as the majority of battery components are currently manufactured in, 
or have significant supply chain exposure to, the People’s Republic of China. The Utilities are still assessing the potential 
impact of the trade policies.
Re-basing.  In its order issued on February 27, 2025, the PUC concluded that Utilities’ target revenues should be re-
based for the next MRP (MRP2) and allowed the Utilities to file a single, consolidated application that presents their requested 
adjustment to target revenues. The proceeding to re-base the Utilities’ target revenues for MRP2 shall be bifurcated into two 
tracks, with the first track focused on reaching a decision on the Utilities’ revenue requirements prior to the commencement of 
MRP2 and the second track focused on making a final determination on the revenue requirement and addressing the rate design 
component.
On August 28, 2025, the Utilities filed a request to extend the time to file a rate case in order to allow collaboration among 
the PBR working group parties on an alternative rate re-basing proposal that could eliminate the need for a general rate case 
application and process. Confirmation was also sought that if a non-rate case re-basing proposal is explored but does not result 
in a proposal supported by the Utilities, they could file a rate case in the second half of 2026 utilizing a 2027 test year. 
Effectively, this alternative process would pick up on previous PBR working group re-basing discussions. This would also 
mean, however, that the Utilities would not file their rate case application in December 2025. This alternative approach could 
also address concern that re-basing and consideration of other PBR Framework modifications be done in a more synchronized 
manner. Upon review and consideration of the record and circumstances, the PUC granted Hawaiian Electric’s Letter Request 
on September 29, 2025, subject to certain conditions. During the fourth quarter of 2025, the Utilities continued to meet with the 
PBR working group to develop an alternative rate re-basing proposal.
On December 8, 2025, the Utilities, together with support from certain PBR parties, filed a request to extend the time to 
submit the alternative rate re-basing proposal by 30 days to February 6, 2026, with a corresponding extension to February 13, 
2026, for statements from any party who opposes or does not agree with any submitted alternative proposal describing their 
opposition and the reasons. On December 16, 2025, the PUC granted the Utilities’ request to extend the deadline for the 
submission of an alternative re-basing proposal from January 7, 2026 to February 6, 2026 and affirmed (i) that any proposal 
submitted by this deadline must comport with the PUC’s prior guidance, (ii) if the parties are unsuccessful at developing an 
alternative proposal for the PUC’s review or if the PUC ultimately rejects any submitted alternative proposal, the Utilities shall 
resume work on their re-basing application utilizing a 2027 test year and file the re-basing application in the second half of 
2026. The PUC correspondingly modified the deadline for parties to submit a statement of opposition to any alternative 
proposal from January 14, 2026 to February 13, 2026. See “Regulatory proceedings” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for additional discussions.
45
On January 28, 2026, the Utilities requested a final extension to file the alternative PBR re-basing proposal on May 7, 2026 
to allow for additional time for the working group parties to develop PIMs and other PBR framework modifications. On 
February 12, 2026, the Utilities filed a written update with the PUC, which explained that the additional time requested will 
allow the parties to explore re-basing and consideration of other PBR Framework modifications in a more synchronized 
manner, streamline Phase 6 (the examination of proposal for modifications to the PBR Framework) and potentially save time 
and resources for both the PUC and parties. On February 24, 2026, the PUC granted in part the Utilities’ extension request, 
extending the deadline to submit an alternative re-basing proposal to March 6, 2026, to allow the PUC to promptly proceed with 
its review of the re-basing proposal. The PUC also extended the deadline for parties to submit any opposition to the alternative 
re-basing proposal to March 13, 2026. The PUC confirmed that it will resume Phase 6 following resolution of the alternative re-
basing proposal.
Affiliate transactions.  In June 2025, the Utilities submitted a request with the PUC to terminate or suspend the 
Affiliate Transaction Requirements (ATRs). Beginning in 2024 and continuing into 2026, HEI has embarked on a strategy to 
divest all of its affiliated companies other than the Utilities, intending for the Utilities to be HEI’s sole operating companies. 
Termination of the ATRs would allow implementation of a corporate integration, under which all HEI employees would move 
to Hawaiian Electric. A few officer positions would manage and operate both HEI and Hawaiian Electric (dual-hatted 
executives) and the HEI and Hawaiian Electric boards of directors would be composed of a single set of individuals. In 
September 2025, the PUC dismissed the request without prejudice. In its order, the PUC provided guidance on the topics to be 
addressed in any future request. On October 31, 2025 HEI and Hawaiian Electric filed a revised request with the PUC to 
terminate or suspend the ATRs. After responding to information requests from the Consumer Advocate, the Consumer 
Advocate issued its statement of position on February 4, 2026. The Consumer Advocate supported the approval of the request 
with the condition that before any recovery of expenses related to HEI, the Utilities should give the Consumer Advocate and the 
PUC advance notice of likely changes to recovery. HEI and Hawaiian Electric informed the PUC that the docket was ready for 
decision making on February 5, 2026. 
System reliability.  Since the August 2023 Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Utilities have developed a set of Interim 
Wildfire Safety Measures to mitigate the risk of wildfires in areas identified as having higher risk of wildfire in all service 
territories (Oahu, Maui County, and Hawaii Island). These interim measures represent actions the Utilities performed in 2024. 
On January 10, 2025, the Utilities filed their 2025-2027 Wildfire Safety Strategy (WSS) with the PUC, which outlines their 
plans to reduce wildfire risk throughout their service territories over the next three years, and was approved by the PUC on 
December 31, 2025. In the near term, it is anticipated that these measures will result in disruptions to service and negatively 
impact Transmission and Distribution (T&D) System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) and System Average 
Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI). While the Utilities work to refine these measures over time to mitigate customer 
impacts, the Utilities are currently focused on taking immediate steps to keep island communities safe during extreme weather 
events. For a discussion regarding the launch of the Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS) program, see discussion below under 
“Wildfire Safety Measures.”
Hawaii Island has two generators out of service for extended maintenance, one of which is expected to return to service in 
the second quarter of 2026. While these units are unavailable for maintenance, during certain periods there may be reductions in 
generation reserve margins and failure of other generators, which could risk generation shortfalls.
For a discussion regarding the impact of the Maui windstorm and wildfires on the Utilities’ liquidity and capital resources, 
see discussion below under “Financial Condition–Liquidity and capital resources.” 
Wildfire Safety Measures.  The Utilities first began developing a Wildfire Safety Strategy in 2019 and continue to adapt the 
plan to address the elevated risks in Hawaii. Since the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Utilities developed a set of Interim 
Wildfire Safety Measures designed to reduce the risk of wildfires associated with utility infrastructure in service territory areas 
identified as posing a higher wildfire risk. These interim measures represent actions the Utilities had either already started, or 
were to start in 2024. These actions included wildfire risk analysis, operation procedures, including the implementation of the 
Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS) program, and grid design changes, enhanced inspection and vegetation management plans, 
and system hardening. In January 2025, the Utilities developed and filed with the PUC a 2025-2027 WSS, which identifies risk 
mitigation strategies to perform over the next three years across their service territories. The programs developed under the 
interim measures have been integrated into the 2025-2026 WSS. The strategies and actions include additional operational 
changes, grid hardening work, enhanced inspections and vegetation management, and risk modeling to inform and prioritize 
hardening work and operational actions. On May 30, 2025, the Utilities submitted an application to the PUC for Exceptional 
Project Recovery Mechanism (EPRM) cost recovery estimated at $350 million, net of costs funded through other existing 
programs. On December 31, 2025, the PUC approved the Utilities’ 2025-2027 WSS (also known as Wildfire Mitigation Plan). 
The PUC also directed the Utilities to provide a 2026-2027 Wildfire Mitigation Plan Update, and guidance for the next Wildfire 
Mitigation Plan covering the 2028-2029 time period. 
The PSPS program, initially developed under the Interim Wildfires Safety Measures Program, is now part of the Utilities’ 
operations. The PSPS program calls for the Utilities to preventatively de-energize circuits in areas identified as high fire risk 
46
during certain weather conditions. The PSPS program launched on July 1, 2024 and is ready to use, if and when it is needed, to 
protect customers, communities and employees. Since the July 2024 implementation, the Utilities have continued to mature the 
PSPS program as it has gained experience executing the program along with public safety partners, communities, and residents. 
For example, the Utilities now have an in-house meteorologist and additional strategically placed weather stations to enhance 
its forecasting capability and situational awareness of localized hazardous conditions. The PSPS protocols will evolve over time 
as more analytical, forecast, and situational awareness capabilities and wildfire mitigations are deployed. De-energizing circuits 
in high wildfire risk areas will lead to extended interruptions for many customers, even if not in a high wildfire risk area. The 
Utilities will continue to work with key stakeholders in balancing the risk of utility-related wildfires with the risk to the public 
arising from not having electricity.
Transition to a decarbonized and sustainable energy future.  The Utilities are fully committed to leading and enabling 
pathways to a decarbonized and sustainable energy future for Hawaii. A sustainable energy future is one that focuses on 
delivering electricity safely, reliably and affordably, strengthening resilience and shifting away from fossil-fueled resources. 
The Utilities believe that a holistic approach to evolving climate dynamics is needed, working on both climate mitigation efforts 
along with climate adaptation efforts. Climate mitigation requires achieving the Utilities’ decarbonization and renewable energy 
commitments, facilitating and promoting beneficial electrification, and deploying carbon removal and offsets among other 
levers to reduce statewide emissions.
Climate action plan.  In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Utilities outlined their Climate Action Plan to cut carbon emissions 
from power generation 70% by 2030, compared to a 2005 baseline. The emissions covered by this goal include stack emissions 
from generation owned by Hawaiian Electric and IPPs who sell electricity to the Utilities. Since that time, delays and 
cancellations in the commercial operation of new renewable third-party generation resources and higher costs as a result of 
supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures, as well as federal policies have slowed the pace of progress toward 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Also, see the “Developments in renewable energy efforts—New renewable PPAs” section 
below. The One Big Beautiful Act signed into law by President Trump on July 4, 2025 may impact the ability of recently 
selected and new wind and solar projects to qualify for federal tax credits. Any loss in renewable energy tax credits could lead 
to project risk for new wind and solar projects in development and will likely result in higher prices for new renewable projects, 
which rely on such incentives to provide clean, affordable energy. Further, new tariffs imposed on equipment and materials 
used in the construction of renewable facilities will have an impact on pricing of new renewable projects. As a result of these 
challenges and the downgrade of Hawaiian Electric’s credit ratings after the Maui windstorm and wildfires, the Utilities expect 
the planned 70% reduction in carbon emissions to be achieved later than the original 2030 target date. However, the Utilities 
will continue to replace significant amounts of fossil fuel generation with renewable energy between now and 2030 and expect 
to meet or exceed the State of Hawaii’s 2030 RPS goals. As of December 31, 2025, the Utilities estimate a reduction of carbon 
emissions of approximately 25%. This represented an increase in emissions compared to the 27% reduction in 2024 due to 
higher customer electric usage. As renewable energy replaces fossil fuel generation, carbon emissions are expected to continue 
to decline over time.
Hawaiian Electric has also committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions from power generation by 2045 or sooner. 
While the timing of the Utilities’ carbon reduction goals will be impacted by federal policies, key elements of the 2030 plan 
have already been completed or remain on track to be completed by 2030, including the closure of AES Hawaii, Inc., the 
State’s last coal-fired IPP plant, increasing rooftop solar by more than 50% over 2021 levels, retiring six fossil fuel generating 
units, increasing grid-scale and customer-owned storage, expanding geothermal resources, and creating customer incentives for 
using clean, lower-cost energy at certain times of the day and using less fossil-fueled energy at night. The retirement of fossil-
fueled generating units is consistent with state policy and supported by Hawaii state law.
State of Hawaii laws and policies.  In January 2025, the State of Hawaii issued two key policy documents and an 
alternative fuel study. The PUC issued its 2024 Inclinations on the Future of Energy in Hawaii (2024 PUC Inclinations). The 
2024 PUC Inclinations are intended to provide a guide for the completion of energy infrastructure upgrades for public safety, 
reliability and resiliency. This includes among other items, strategic hardening, diversification and enhancements of 
transmission and distribution systems, expedited replacement of older fossil fired generation, streamlined interconnection for 
renewable utility scale and distributed energy resources, including a specific goal to limit fossil fuel generation to no more than 
40% on each island by 2030, software and hardware improvement to prevent cybersecurity threats, creation of resilience hubs, 
and integration of electric, gas, and renewable resources to support continuity of energy, telecommunications, water and 
wastewater services. The 2024 PUC Inclinations specifically state that “Strategic ownership of new generation (by the Utilities) 
may be beneficial, especially when such ownership stabilizes utility finances, benefits from low-interest federal loans or 
advances other objectives such as operational accountability, resilience and public safety.”
Governor Josh Green issued Executive Order No. 25-01, Accelerating Hawaii’s Transition Toward 100 Percent Renewable 
Energy (EO 25-01). EO 25-01 sets forth collective actions to accelerate the State’s decarbonization, stabilize and reduce energy 
costs, lower the State’s carbon footprint, strengthen energy security, and gain access to capital for the energy transition. Among 
other actions, EO 25-01 calls for 100% renewable electricity production in the counties of Hawaii and Maui by 2035 and 
47
achieving a 70% reduction of Oahu’s greenhouse gas emissions reductions from the electricity sector by 2035, using 2005 as a 
baseline, calls for the maximization of distributed solar energy paired with energy storage, including the installation of 50,000 
new distributed energy resources by 2030, accelerating permitting tied to renewable energy, approving interconnection, and 
addressing energy burdens on low- and moderate-income residents.
The Hawaii State Energy Office’s Alternative Fuel, Repowering and Energy Transition Study (Alternative Fuel Study) 
expresses concern about the speed of the transition to renewable energy and cites to the continued reliance on imported oil as a 
driver of high bills and intense carbon emissions. The report makes a case for the use of liquefied natural gas on Oahu to 
replace low sulfur fuel oil during the transition to 100% renewable energy, and names several entities as potential investors that 
could help speed the transition. On October 6, 2025, the Office of the Governor of the State of Hawaii and JERA Co., Inc., 
Japan’s largest power producer, signed a non-binding Strategic Partnering Agreement that establishes a framework for long-
term collaboration to support Hawaii’s decarbonization goals and energy transition. The Strategic Partnering Agreement 
supports the implementation of the Hawaii State Energy Office’s Alternative Fuel Study to pursue fuel diversification, 
including liquified natural gas, to reduce near-term reliance on oil. The Utilities are engaged in planning activities designed to 
support the State’s energy policy objectives, including the transition to a more affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy 
system. These planning efforts evaluate a range of resource, fuel, and technology options and are informed by state energy 
policy guidance and stakeholder input. Importantly, all three documents recognize that to achieve the State’s ambitious goals is 
a collective effort that will require government agencies, electric utilities, and private stakeholders to work together, 
acknowledging that each of these groups has an important role to play. The 2024 PUC Inclinations for example state: “Energy 
utilities, government agencies and private stakeholders must embrace an ethos of collective responsibility to confront and 
effectively mitigate the vulnerabilities revealed by Lahaina’s heartbreaking tragedy, the COVID pandemic, ongoing global 
unrest, cybersecurity threats and the overarching climate crisis.” The PUC later states: “The Commission does not expect 
energy utilities to accelerate their transformation without regulatory assistance and third-party resources.” All three documents 
also recognize the progress made to date towards the State’s renewable energy goals. The Utilities remain committed to 
working with all stakeholders to support the State’s energy policy objectives and reach Hawaii’s ambitious renewable energy 
goals.
Hawaii’s renewable portfolio standard law requires electric utilities to meet an RPS of 30%, 40%, 70% and 100% by 
December 31, 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2045, respectively. Hawaii law has also established a target of sequestering more 
atmospheric carbon and greenhouse gases than emitted within the State by 2045. The Utilities’ strategies and plans are fully 
aligned in meeting these targets (see also “Integrated Grid Planning” below).
The Utilities have made significant progress on the path to clean energy and have been successful in achieving RPS goals. 
To date the Utilities have met all of the statutory RPS goals, including exceeding the latest milestone RPS target of 30% for 
2020, where it achieved an RPS of 34.5%. In July 2022, former Governor Ige signed Act 240 (H.B.2089), that amended the 
RPS calculation from renewable energy as a percentage of sales to renewable energy as a percentage of total generation. The 
amended RPS calculation results in a lower calculated percentage than the amount calculated under the previous methodology. 
For example, the 2022 RPS achieved under the revised RPS calculation was 31.8% versus 39.1% under the prior method. The 
change in the definition is effective from July 2022 forward and will require that the Utilities acquire more renewable energy 
than under the previous RPS calculation to comply with the RPS milestones; however, the Utilities expect to continue to meet 
the RPS milestones under the amended RPS law. See “Developments in renewable energy efforts” below.
If the Utilities are not successful in meeting the RPS targets as mandated by law, the PUC could assess a penalty of $20 for 
every megawatt-hour (MWh) that an electric utility is deficient. Based on the level of total generation in 2025, a 1% shortfall in 
meeting the 2030 RPS requirement of 40% would translate into a penalty of approximately $2.1 million. The PUC has the 
discretion to reduce the penalty due to events or circumstances that are outside an electric utility’s reasonable control, to the 
extent the event or circumstance could not be reasonably foreseen and ameliorated. In addition to penalties under the RPS law, 
failure to meet the mandated RPS targets would be expected to result in a higher proportion of fossil fuel-based generation than 
if the RPS target had been achieved, which in turn would be expected to subject the Utilities to limited commodity fossil fuel 
price exposure under a fuel cost risk-sharing mechanism. The fuel cost risk-sharing mechanism apportions 2% of the fuel cost 
risk to the utilities (and 98% to ratepayers) and has a maximum exposure (or benefit) of $3.7 million. Conversely, the Utilities 
have incentives under PIMs that provide a financial reward for accelerating the achievement of renewable generation as a 
percentage of total generation, including customer supplied generation. In 2025, the Utilities achieved a 36.8% RPS accruing a 
reward of $1.9 million based on $10/MWh in exceedance of 35.0% RPS. In 2026, the Utilities are eligible for a reward of $10/
MWh in exceedance of 36.0% RPS.
The Utilities are fully aligned with, and supportive of, state policy to achieve a decarbonized future and have made 
significant progress in reducing emissions through renewable energy and electrification. This alignment with state policy is 
reflected in management compensation programs and the Utilities’ long-range plans, which include aspirational targets in order 
to catalyze action and accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels throughout their operations at a pace more rapid than 
dictated by current law. The long-range plans, including aspirational targets, serve as guiding principles in the Utilities’ 
48
continued transformation, and are updated regularly to adapt to changing technology, costs, and other factors. While there is no 
financial penalty for failure to achieve the Utilities’ long-range aspirational objectives, the Utilities recognize that there are 
environmental and social costs from the continued use of fossil fuels.
The State of Hawaii’s policy is supported by the regulatory framework and includes a number of mechanisms designed to 
maintain the Utilities’ financial stability during the transition toward the State’s decarbonized future. Under the sales 
decoupling mechanism, the Utilities are allowed to recover from customers, target test year revenues, independent of the level 
of kWh sales, which have generally trended lower over time as privately-owned distributed energy resources have been added 
to the grid and energy efficiency measures have been put into place. Other regulatory mechanisms under the PBR Framework 
reduce some of the regulatory lag during the multi-year rate plan, such as the annual revenue adjustment to provide annual 
changes in utility revenues, including inflationary adjustments, and the EPRM, which allows the Utilities to recover and earn on 
certain approved eligible projects placed into service. See “Regulatory proceedings” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Integrated Grid Planning.  Achieving high levels of renewable energy and a carbon free electric system will require 
modernizing the grid through coordinated energy system planning in partnership with local communities and stakeholders. To 
accomplish this, the Utilities are implementing an innovative systems approach to energy planning intended to yield the most 
cost-effective renewable energy and decarbonization pathways that incorporates customer and stakeholder input. 
The Integrated Grid Planning (IGP) process utilizes an inclusive and transparent stakeholder engagement model to provide 
an avenue for interested parties to engage with the Utilities and contribute meaningful input throughout the IGP process. The 
first cycle of the IGP was accepted by the PUC on March 7, 2024, and is the culmination of more than five years of partnership 
with stakeholders and community members across the islands. Together, they forecasted future energy needs and identified 
strategies to meet Hawaii’s growing energy demand with 100% renewable resources. The Integrated Grid Plan proposes 
actionable steps to decarbonize the electric grid on the State of Hawaii’s timeline, with a flexible framework that can adapt to 
future technologies. On January 2, 2026, the PUC opened the Second Cycle of the Integrated Grid Plan to continue to plan for 
future resources needed on the Utilities’ systems.
Demand response programs.  Pursuant to PUC orders, the Utilities are developing an integrated Demand Response 
Portfolio Plan that will enhance system operations and reduce costs to customers. The reduction in cost for the customer will 
take the form of either rates or incentive-based programs that will compensate customers for their participation individually, or 
by way of engagements with turnkey service providers that contract with the Utilities to aggregate and deliver various grid 
services on behalf of participating customers and their distributed assets.
In 2021, the PUC approved the Emergency Demand Response Program (EDRP), a battery storage incentive program to 
dispatch electricity between 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. daily from participating residential and commercial customers, which provides 
approximately 43 MW on Oahu. 
Subsequently in 2022, the Utilities were approved to expand the EDRP program on the island of Maui and Oahu, which 
provides approximately 8 MW and 43 MW on Maui and Oahu, respectively. The PUC approved the cost recovery of the 
additional incentives for both Oahu and Maui through the Demand Side Management Surcharge.
During the time that EDRP was available, Bring Your Own Device Level 1 was launched on April 1, 2025, to succeed 
EDRP, which closed on July 1, 2024, on Oahu. The Bring Your Own Device Level 1 later evolved into Bring Your Own 
Device Plus, which began on May 15, 2025. Enrollment for the Bring Your Own Device Plus program will be available until 
total enrolled program capacity reaches 50 MW statewide.
Grid modernization. The overall goal of the Grid Modernization Strategy (GMS) is to deploy modern grid investments at 
an appropriate priority, sequence and pace to cost-effectively maximize flexibility, minimize the risk of redundancy and 
obsolescence, deliver customer benefits and enable greater resiliency, reliability, distributed energy resources and renewable 
energy integration.
Deployment was planned in two phases. The Utilities completed Phase 1 deployment of 447,000 advanced meters, 
servicing approximately 95% of the customers in 2024 and are recovering associated costs under the MPIR mechanism. Since 
GMS Phase 1 Project completion, the Utilities continue to deploy advanced meters as part of normal meter shop operations 
under the recovery of Annual Revenue Adjustment mechanism.
The Utilities filed their initial application with the PUC on September 30, 2019 for an Advanced Distribution Management 
System as part of Phase 2 of their GMS implementation. However, as the Utilities were unsuccessful in securing IIJA federal 
funding in 2024, the Utilities are currently re-scoping GMS Phase 2 and plan to file another updated and supplemented PUC 
application for updated project costs in the second quarter of 2026.
49
Community-based renewable energy.  In December 2017, the PUC adopted a community-based renewable energy (CBRE) 
program framework which allows customers who cannot, or chose not to, take advantage of private rooftop solar to receive the 
benefits of renewable energy to help offset their monthly electric bills and support clean energy for Hawaii. The program has 
two phases.
The first phase includes five projects currently in operation (3,270 kW on Oahu, 28.32 kW on Maui, 750 kW on Hawaii 
and 250 kW on Molokai).
In 2021 and 2022, the Utilities opened their Phase 2, Tranche 1 RFPs and low-to-moderate income RFPs for Oahu, Maui 
and Hawaii Island, as well as RFPs for Molokai and Lanai. This second phase includes 12.5 MW of dedicated-Low-to-
Moderate Income projects, which were expected to become operational in 2026 but have since been delayed.
For Lanai, the Utilities combined the previously issued Variable Renewable Dispatchable Generation Paired with Energy 
Storage RFP and the CBRE RFP to optimize the benefits of procuring renewable energy, spur development and increase the 
likelihood of success of the CBRE Program on Lanai. A project was selected in the Lanai RFP, but negotiations were 
terminated. On July 1, 2022, a replacement project was selected and negotiations commenced. On October 23, 2024, the 
developer submitted a withdrawal letter to the Utilities. See “Developments in renewable energy efforts–Requests for 
renewable proposals, expressions of interest, and information” for more information. The Utilities are exploring other options 
for procuring renewable energy on Lanai.
On Molokai, two contracts for solar plus storage facilities with a total capacity of 2.45-MW of photovoltaic (PV) paired 
with 11.1-MWh of battery energy storage were executed and approved by the PUC on January 8, 2024.
The Utilities CBRE Phase 2 Tariff Rule 29 became effective on March 10, 2022. The Utilities are currently still accepting 
project applications for small CBRE projects less than 250 kW in size. The PUC reserved 45 MW as well as a small amount of 
unallocated capacity from Phase 1 for small projects in Phase 2 on Oahu, Maui and Hawaii Island. The Utilities have developed 
a CBRE Portal where Subscriber Organizations can apply for small project capacity and manage subscribers for all CBRE 
projects in the program. Customers can also use the CBRE Portal to solicit subscription quotes, compare, and subscribe to a 
project once the Subscriber Organization has added their project to the portal.
On October 31, 2025, the Utilities filed to the PUC a proposed framework for an update to the CBRE program that the 
Utilities have named CBRE Phase 3: Utility-Resourced Model. In the proposed framework, the Utilities address challenges with 
previous phases of the CBRE program with a utility-resourced model and putting a special emphasis on Low-to-Moderate 
Income customer participation. As of December 31, 2025, there has been no PUC decision on the Utilities’ proposed 
framework.
Microgrid services tariff proceeding.  In enacting Act 200 of 2018, the Hawaii legislature found that Hawaii’s residents 
and businesses were vulnerable to disruptions in the islands’ energy systems caused by extreme weather events or other 
disasters and stated its belief that the use of microgrids would build energy resiliency into Hawaii’s communities, thereby 
increasing public safety and security. The purpose of Act 200 was therefore to encourage and facilitate the development and use 
of microgrids through the establishment of a standard microgrid services tariff. In July 2018, pursuant to Act 200, the PUC 
opened a proceeding to investigate the establishment of a microgrid services tariff. For Phase 1, the PUC approved the 
Microgrid Service Tariff developed by the Utilities, which created a regulatory pathway to microgrid development in Hawaii. 
For Phase 2, the PUC established its Prioritized Issues for Resolution of the Microgrid proceeding, which includes the 
following: 1) Microgrid Compensation and Grid Services; 2) Utility Compensation; 3) Customer Protection and Related 
Considerations; 4) Interconnection; and 5) working group coordination with related microgrid and resilience Initiatives at 
Hawaiian Electric and government agencies. 
Additionally, the PUC provided further guidance to the working group to prioritize discussion of the microgrid types in the 
following order: 1) Hybrid Microgrid - Third Party Developer using Utility lines/infrastructure; 2) Hybrid Microgrid - Utility 
Project with Partners; and 3) Customer Microgrid. Additionally, the PUC instructed the working group to discuss microgrid 
compensation and continue the involvement of microgrid developers in working group meetings.
On June 12, 2025, the PUC issued an order closing the docket as the PUC believes that the primary objectives of Act 200 
have been accomplished. However, the PUC also believes that further modifications to the Microgrid Services Tariff should be 
explored, such exploration should be within the context of the State’s current resilience needs. To further these objectives, the 
PUC intends to establish an informal working group. On July 2, 2025, Governor Josh Green signed Senate Bill 589, now 
known as Act 266, which, among other things, authorizes wheeling of renewable energy (100 kW - 2 MW) and requires the 
PUC to establish policies related to distributed energy resources, retail wheeling, and microgrid service tariffs. 
Investigation on the establishment of wheeling.  On July 1, 2024, the PUC issued an order to institute a proceeding to 
investigate the establishment of electricity wheeling policies and procedures for the electric utilities for the State of Hawaii. The 
50
PUC stated that it intended to address matters using lessons learned in the initial three docket phases to explore implementation 
of an intragovernmental wheeling policy and an evaluation of retail wheeling in subsequent phases, as appropriate.
On May 15, 2025, the PUC issued an order, suspending the procedural schedule for the docket in consideration of Senate 
Bill 589, and set a status conference for June 24, 2025. By suspending the procedural schedule and convening a status 
conference, the PUC sought to facilitate a comprehensive review of Senate Bill 589 and its implications for electricity wheeling 
in Hawaii. Due to ongoing uncertainties, the PUC subsequently cancelled the status conference on June 19, 2025. For more 
information on Act 266, see discussion in “Regulatory and legislative developments” above.
On August 29, 2025, the PUC issued an order reopening the docket and divided the proceeding into two tracks, Track A, 
focused on retail wheeling, and Track B, focused on an intragovernmental credit share program that was the subject of the prior 
procedural schedule in the docket. Among other matters, a new intervention period for interested parties to be admitted as a 
party to the docket and a new procedural schedule was established. Hawaiian Electric is required to develop a “straw proposal” 
under Track A, on or before November 10, 2025, for comment by the State of Hawaii Office of Consumer Advocacy, and any 
other stakeholders, on or before January 20, 2026. On October 16, 2025, the PUC issued an order, addressing the various 
motions for Participation and Intervention in the docket.
On October 22, 2025, the Utilities filed feedback on the PUC’s proposed Track B, Intragovernmental Shared Credit 
Program. The Utilities support the program but emphasize that careful program design is necessary to ensure technical 
feasibility, administrative efficiency, and fairness for all customers. The Utilities agree that the program could support the 
development of Renewable Energy Zones by unlocking government lands for renewable projects and enabling proactive 
transmission planning.
On November 10, 2025, the Utilities filed its Track A Retail Wheeling Straw Proposal. The Utilities note that it is 
providing a high-level proposal to help identify areas for further detailed discussion as Track A of the docket proceeds and 
reserves the right to amend the proposal or positions contained herein as discussions continue. The Utilities’ Straw Proposal 
provides an overview for the application process, a discussion of technical standards for grid interconnection and monitoring, 
provisions for metering and monitoring and a discussion of pricing mechanisms in the tariff structure and how to appropriately 
allocate wheeling costs. The Consumer Advocate and stakeholders provided comments on the Utilities’ Straw Proposal by 
January 20, 2026. The Utilities are to file responses to the comments of the Consumer Advocate and stakeholders on March 6, 
2026.
Regulatory proceedings.  On December 23, 2020, the PBR D&O was issued, establishing the PBR Framework. The PBR 
Framework implemented a five-year multi-year rate period (MRP), during which there will be no general rate case applications. 
The Utilities are currently exploring a collaborative non-rate case re-basing proposal under the PBR Framework as an 
alternative to a rate case process. See “Regulatory proceedings” in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a 
discussion of re-basing, PBR Framework and decoupling.
Regulated returns.  As part of the PBR Framework’s annual review cycle, the Utilities track their rate-making ROACEs as 
calculated under the earnings sharing mechanism, which includes only items considered in establishing rates. At year-end, each 
utility’s rate-making ROACE is compared against its ROACE allowed by the PUC to determine whether earnings sharing has 
been triggered. The D&O in the PBR proceeding modified the earnings sharing mechanism to a symmetric arrangement. 
Effective with annual earnings for 2021, the earnings sharing will be triggered for achieved rate-making ROACE outside of a 
300 basis points dead band above and below the current authorized rate-making ROACE of 9.5% for each of the Utilities (i.e., 
above 12.5% or below 6.5%). Earnings sharing credits or recoveries will be included in the biannual report (formally known as 
annual decoupling filing) to be filed with the PUC in the spring of the following year.
On August 31, 2023, the PUC issued an order temporarily suspending the Earnings Sharing Mechanism (ESM) until 
further notice. The intent of the order is to address the unintended consequence of customers potentially bearing the costs 
associated with the Maui windstorm and wildfires through the operation of the ESM without prior PUC review. In accordance 
with the order, the ESM remains suspended and the earnings sharing adjustment for 2025 is zero as of December 31, 2025.
Actual and PUC-allowed returns, as of December 31, 2025, were as follows:
Ratio (%)
Rate-making 
Return on rate base (RORB)* Book ROACE** Rate-making ROACE***
Year ended December 31, 2025
Hawaiian 
Electric
Hawaii 
Electric 
Light
Maui 
Electric
Hawaiian 
Electric
Hawaii 
Electric 
Light
Maui 
Electric
Hawaiian 
Electric
Hawaii 
Electric 
Light
Maui 
Electric
Utility returns  7.61  6.65  4.49  19.27  9.51  3.48  9.92  8.19  4.54 
PUC-allowed returns  7.37  7.52  7.43  9.50  9.50  9.50  9.50  9.50  9.50 
Difference  0.24  (0.87)  (2.94)  9.77  0.01  (6.02)  0.42  (1.31)  (4.96) 
*       Based on recorded operating income and average rate base, both adjusted for items not included in determining electric rates.
51
**     Based on recorded net income divided by average common equity.
***   Based on recorded net income adjusted to remove items not included in determining electric rates, divided by rate making equity.
Rate-making calculations remove the impacts of the Settlement Agreements and eliminate the balances for the asset-based 
lending facility (ABL Facility) on a stand-alone company basis. The Utilities have stated that customers will not be impacted by 
payments related to the Settlement Agreements for the Maui windstorm and wildfires, which are expected to be $1.9 billion (see 
Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). The ABL Facility contains certain intercompany costs related to the ABL 
Facility that are eliminated on a consolidated basis, and these transactions are eliminated on a stand-alone company basis for 
rate-making. Therefore, the rate-making returns were adjusted to exclude these impacts. 
The gap between PUC-allowed ROACEs and the ROACEs achieved is generally due to the exclusion of certain expenses 
from rates (for example, incentive compensation and charitable contributions), and depreciation, other operation and 
maintenance (O&M) expense and return on rate base that are in excess of what is currently being recovered through rates (the 
last rate case plus authorized RAM adjustments and ARA revenues). In 2025, Maui Electric's returns are lower than allowed 
levels due to higher sustained maintenance and investments than what is recovered in current rates.
52
Results of operations.
2025 vs. 2024
2025 2024 Increase (decrease) (dollars in millions, except per barrel amounts)
$ 3,071 $ 3,207 $ (136)  Revenues. Net decrease largely due to:
$ (132) lower fuel oil prices partially offset by higher kWh generated1
 (27) lower purchased power energy prices, partially offset by higher kWh purchased and 
higher PPAC revenues2
 (2) lower Major Project Interim Recovery (MPIR) revenue
 4 higher Demand-Side Management revenue
 23 higher revenue from ARA
 947  1,078  (131) Fuel oil expense1. Net decrease largely due to lower fuel oil prices and better heat rate 
performance, partially offset by higher kWh generated 
 678  703  (25)  Purchased power expense1,2. Net decrease largely due to lower purchased power energy 
prices, along with liquidated damages due to project delays and performance deficiency, 
offset in part by higher kWh purchased and continued addition of Stage 1 and Stage 2 
re