QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
Advancing 
the power of 
 diagnostics for a  
 healthier future
2023 Annual Report
QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
2023 was a foundational year for QuidelOrtho.  
We grew above market in our Labs business, 
gained market share with our industry-leading 
respiratory Point-of-Care products and achieved 
several important Company milestones. Most 
notably, our operations team made significant 
manufacturing upgrades, which increased our 
production capacity and supply chain resilience, 
and positioned us to help meet market demand.
Following our first full year as a combined  
Company, we are pleased to share that our  
global sales team is solidly in place, bolstering  
our ability to cross-sell and enhancing our  
competitive stance around the globe. We  
received approximately 1,700 regulatory  
approvals worldwide, including approximately  
700 in the U.S., EMEA and China. Importantly,  
this includes de novo FDA authorization  
for Sofia® 2 SARS Antigen + FIA and 510(K)  
clearance for the Savanna® platform with  
the HSV 1+2/VZV PCR assay.
Over the course of 2023, we progressed our  
strategic initiatives to further strengthen our  
balance sheet and return capital to stockholders, 
including generating GAAP net cash provided  
by operating activities of approximately $280  
million and adjusted cash flow of approximately 
$270 million, as well as paying down $227 million 
on our term loan.
These accomplishments helped strengthen  
our competitive position and long-term  
growth profile.
2023 In review
Our diversified business addresses growing  
segments in the $48 billion in vitro diagnostics 
industry across the continuum of care—from  
reference labs and hospitals to near-patient  
testing in clinics, retail, and home care settings.
For the full year 2023, reported revenue was  
$3.0 billion, GAAP diluted loss per share was 
$0.15 and adjusted diluted EPS was $4.13. While 
reported revenue was down from $3.3 billion 
in 2022, primarily due to the reduced need for 
COVID-19 testing, we achieved a notable 5%  
increase in our non-respiratory reported revenues 
for 2023, including an impressive 8% revenue 
increase in our Labs business compared to the 
prior year. We successfully addressed supply 
chain issues to improve instrument backlogs and 
meet the needs of our customers, demonstrating 
the resiliency and adaptability of our team and 
business model.
In our respiratory business, we gained market 
share during 2023, particularly in our Point-of-Care 
portfolio, which includes our Sofia platform in the 
professional setting with a large installed base 
of instruments worldwide. Our influenza A/B and 
COVID-19 combination test continued to gain  
market traction, with solid growth as a percentage 
of flu test volume in 2023. With our diversified and 
highly differentiated product portfolio, we believe 
we are well positioned to compete in key global 
markets with our Point-of-Care and Molecular  
portfolios over the longer term.
T o our valued stockholders,
QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
A strong foundation poised  
for a positive future
In February of 2024, QuidelOrtho’s Board of  
Directors recognized the need to restructure  
our leadership team to focus on top- and  
bottom-line growth. As a result, the Board  
created the Office of the Chief Executive Officer 
(Office of the CEO) comprised of three seasoned 
industry veterans—Michael Iskra, Interim Chief  
Executive Officer, Executive Vice President  
and Chief Commercial Officer; Robert Bujarski,  
Interim President, Executive Vice President  
and Chief Operating Officer; and Joseph Busky,  
Chief Financial Officer. The Board empowered  
the Office of the CEO to execute on growth-driven 
initiatives focused on sharpening our commercial 
and operational strategies, driving greater  
efficiency and organizational cohesion, and  
expanding our potential to create value  
for stockholders.
Our goals for 2024 are clear. We are focused 
on accelerating margin restoration initiatives to 
improve our business efficiency and enhance our 
growth. These initiatives include consolidating 
facilities, streamlining operations, and refining 
product development efforts to expand our menu 
offerings and solidify our competitive edge.  
Additionally, we are committed to our efforts to 
advance the market adoption of our Savanna  
molecular platform and invest in high growth  
markets to drive sustained growth and deliver 
long-term stockholder value. Our strategic  
initiatives are aligned with our decision to  
wind-down the U.S. donor screening portfolio 
within our Transfusion Medicine (TM) business, 
which has a lower growth and margin profile than 
the other parts of our TM business. Although  
we plan to gradually transition out of the U.S.  
donor screening portfolio, we will continue to  
support our existing customers and honor our  
contractual commitments.
As we work through and manage these changes, 
we recognize that cultivating a resilient and  
vibrant corporate culture is paramount to  
QuidelOrtho’s success. Our dedicated teams  
are the cornerstone of our achievements,  
embodying our core values and driving our 
growth. QuidelOrtho has a unique identity,  
distinguished by our strong foundation and  
agility to tackle significant opportunities in a 
dynamic market. Our commitment to profitable 
growth is unwavering, with a sharp focus on  
initiatives designed to deliver sustainable  
returns and drive our success.
We look forward to updating you on our progress. 
Thank you for your continued support.
Sincerely,
Office of the Chief Executive Officer 
QUIDELORTHO CORPORATION
QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
Forward-looking statements
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These  
statements are any statement contained herein that is not strictly historical, including, but not limited to, QuidelOrtho’s commercial,  
integration and other strategic goals, future financial condition and operating results, and future plans, objectives, strategies, expectations  
and intentions. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “might,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,”  
“estimate,” “plan,” “intend,” “goal,” “project,” “strategy,” “future,” “continue” or similar words, expressions or the negative of such terms  
or other comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the beliefs and  
expectations of QuidelOrtho’s management as of today and are subject to significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual 
results or outcomes may differ significantly from those set forth or implied in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among 
others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth or implied in the forward-looking statements: supply chain, production,  
logistics, distribution and labor disruptions and challenges; the challenges and costs of integrating, restructuring and achieving anticipated 
synergies as a result of the business combination of Quidel Corporation and Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Holdings plc; and other macro- 
economic, geopolitical, market, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the business of QuidelOrtho generally, including 
those discussed under “Risk Factors” in QuidelOrtho’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 and 
subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”). You should not rely on forward-looking 
statements as predictions of future events because these statements are based on assumptions that may not come true and are  
speculative by their nature. All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to QuidelOrtho and speak  
only as of the date hereof. QuidelOrtho undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information or time-sensitive  
information included in this document, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed expectations or otherwise,  
except as required by law.
Non-GAAP financial measures
This document contains “adjusted cash flow” and “adjusted diluted EPS,” which are considered non-GAAP financial measures under  
applicable rules and regulations of the Commission. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, and  
not a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. QuidelOrtho’s definition of these non-GAAP measures may 
differ from similarly titled measures used by others. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of 
QuidelOrtho’s operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may 
provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting QuidelOrtho’s business. Because non-GAAP financial measures 
exclude the effect of items that will increase or decrease QuidelOrtho’s reported results of operations, management strongly encourages 
you to review QuidelOrtho’s consolidated financial statements and reports filed with the Commission in their entirety. Reconciliations of 
these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the following tables.
QuidelOrtho 2023 Annual Report
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Information – Adjusted Free Cash Flow 
(In millions, unaudited)
 Fiscal Year Ended
 December 31, 2023
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 280.2
Adjustments:
Capital expenditures  (191.4)
Other payments(a)  180.8
Adjusted free cash flow  $ 269.6
(a)For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, other payments include $116 million related to acquisition, integration and other costs,  
   $47 million of integration-related cloud computing implementation costs and $18 million of other integration-related capital expenditures.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Information – Adjusted Net Income 
(In millions, except per share data; unaudited)
 Fiscal Year Ended
 December 31, 2023 Diluted EPS
Net loss $ (10.1) $ (0.15)
Adjustments:
Amortization of intangibles  204.8
Acquisition and integration costs  113.4
Incremental depreciation on PP&E fair value adjustment  33.5
Tax indemnification expense  12.6
Amortization of deferred cloud computing implementation costs  9.2
Impairment of long-lived assets  4.5
Loss on investments  3.6
EU medical device regulation transition costs  2.5
Noncash interest expense for deferred consideration  0.7
Other adjustments  1.7
Income tax impact of adjustments  (87.5)
Discrete tax items  (11.2)
Adjusted net income $ 277.7 $ 4.13
Weighted-average shares outstanding – diluted    67.3
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________________________________
FORM 10-K 
(Mark One)
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023
OR
☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
OF 1934
For the transition period from _____ to _____
Commission file number: 001-41409 
QUIDELORTHO CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 87-4496285
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
9975 Summers Ridge Road, San Diego, California 92121 
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
(858) 552-1100 
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered
Common stock, $0.001 par value QDEL The Nasdaq Stock Market
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ☒  No  ☐
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ☐  No  ☒
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during 
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for 
the past 90 days.    Yes    ☒    No    ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of 
Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files).    
Yes    ☒   No    ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an 
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” 
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
Large accelerated filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐	
Non-accelerated filer ☐	 Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or 
revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.    ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control 
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its 
audit report.    ☒
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing 
reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.    ☐
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by 
any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b).    ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes    ☐    No    ☒
The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $5,089,571,842 based on the closing sale price at 
which the common stock was last sold, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
As of February 22, 2024, 66,849,490 shares of the registrant’s common stock were outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
(To the Extent Indicated Herein)
Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the registrant’s 2024 Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders (scheduled to be held on May 14, 2024) are incorporated by reference into Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K. 
QUIDELORTHO CORPORATION
FORM 10-K
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Future Uncertainties and Forward-Looking Statements 4
Part I
Item 1. Business 5
Item 1A. Risk Factors 26
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49
Item 1C. Cybersecurity 49
Item 2. Properties 51
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52
Item 6. [Reserved] 53
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 65
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 110
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 110
Item 9B. Other Information 112
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 112
Part III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 113
Item 11. Executive Compensation 113
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 113
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 113
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 113
Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 114
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116
Signatures 117
3

Future Uncertainties and Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Annual Report”) contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), 
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These statements are any statement 
contained herein that is not strictly historical, including, but not limited to, certain statements under Part I, Item 1, “Business,” 
Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations,” and located elsewhere herein regarding our commercial, integration and other strategic or sustainability-
related goals, industry prospects, our expected results of operations or financial position, and future plans, objectives, strategies, 
expectations and intentions. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “might,” “expect,” 
“anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “plan,” “intend,” “goal,” “project,” “strategy,” “future,” “continue” or similar words, 
expressions or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements. 
Such statements are based on the beliefs and expectations of our management as of the date of this Annual Report and are 
subject to significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results or outcomes may differ significantly from 
those set forth or implied in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to 
differ from those set forth or implied in the forward-looking statements: supply chain, production, logistics, distribution and 
labor disruptions and challenges; the challenges and costs of integrating, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies as a 
result of the Combinations (as defined in this Annual Report); and other macroeconomic, geopolitical, market, business, 
competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our business generally, including those discussed under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk 
Factors” of this Annual Report. Investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events because 
these statements are based on assumptions that may not come true and are speculative by their nature. All forward-looking 
statements are based on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake 
no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information or time-sensitive information included in this Annual Report, 
whether as a result of new information, future events, changed expectations or otherwise, except as required by law. 
4
Part I
Item 1. Business
All references to “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report refer to QuidelOrtho Corporation 
(“QuidelOrtho”) and its subsidiaries. References to “fiscal year 2023” in this Annual Report refer to the Company’s fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2023.
Overview
Our vision is to advance diagnostics to power a healthier future. With our expertise in immunoassay and molecular testing, 
clinical chemistry and transfusion medicine, we aim to provide clarity to clinicians and patients to help create better health 
outcomes. Our global infrastructure and commercial reach support our customers across more than 130 countries and territories 
with quality diagnostics, a broad test portfolio and market-leading service. We operate globally with manufacturing facilities in 
the U.S. and U.K. and with sales centers, administrative offices and warehouses located throughout the world.
We currently sell our products directly to end users through a direct sales force and through a network of distributors, for 
professional use in physician offices, hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, urgent care clinics, leading 
universities, retail clinics, pharmacies, wellness screening centers, other point-of-care (“POC”) settings, blood banks and donor 
centers, as well as for individual, non-professional, over-the-counter (“OTC”) use. We reached new markets as we introduced 
our QuickVue® At-Home OTC COVID-19 test for at-home consumer use, school districts, health departments and many other 
locations. 
On May 27, 2022, pursuant to a Business Combination Agreement entered into as of December 22, 2021 (the “BCA”), by and 
among Quidel Corporation (“Quidel”), Ortho Clinical Diagnostics Holdings plc (“Ortho”), QuidelOrtho (formerly Coronado 
Topco, Inc.), Orca Holdco, Inc., Laguna Merger Sub, Inc. (“U.S. Merger Sub”), and Orca Holdco 2, Inc., Quidel and Ortho 
consummated a business combination (the “Combinations”) by way of (i) a scheme of arrangement undertaken by Ortho under 
Part 26 of the U.K. Companies Act 2006 (the “Ortho Scheme”), pursuant to which each issued and outstanding share of Ortho 
was acquired by a nominee of QuidelOrtho, such that Ortho became a wholly owned subsidiary of QuidelOrtho, and (ii) a 
merger of U.S. Merger Sub with and into Quidel, with Quidel surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of 
QuidelOrtho. The High Court of Justice of England and Wales (the “Court”) sanctioned the Ortho Scheme on May 26, 2022 
and a sealed order of the Court was delivered to the Registrar of Companies at Companies House on May 27, 2022, satisfying 
the final condition to closing of the Combinations. For additional information about the Combinations, refer to Part II, Item 8, 
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Business Combination.”
We manage our business geographically to better align with the market dynamics of the specific geographic regions in which 
we operate, with our reportable segments being North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), and China. 
Latin America, Japan and Asia Pacific are immaterial operating segments that are not considered reportable segments and are 
included in “Other.” We generate our revenue primarily in the following business units: Labs, Transfusion Medicine, Point of 
Care and Molecular Diagnostics. Information concerning revenues attributable to our reportable segments and business units is 
set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4. Revenue” and “Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data—Note 5. Segment and Geographic Information.” 
Business Units and Products
We provide diagnostic testing solutions under various brand names, including, among others, the following: AdenoPlus ™, 
BIOVUE®, FreshCells ™, InflammaDry ®, Lyra ®, MeterPro ®, MicroVue ™, Ortho ®, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics ®, Ortho 
Connect™, Ortho Plus ®, Ortho Vision®, QuickVue, Quidel®, QuidelOrtho™, QVue™, Savanna®, Sofia®, Solana®, Thyretain®, 
Triage®, Virena® and Vitros®. Solely for convenience, in some cases, the trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to 
in this Annual Report are listed without the applicable ® and ™ symbols, but we intend to enforce our rights to these trademarks, 
service marks and trade names.
5
We generate product revenue in the following business units:
Business Unit Focus
Labs Clinical chemistry laboratory instruments and tests, which measure target 
chemicals in bodily fluids for the evaluation of health and the clinical 
management of patients
Immunoassay laboratory instruments and tests, which measure proteins as 
they act as antigens in the spread of disease, antibodies in the immune 
response spurred by disease, or markers of proper organ function and health
Testing to detect and monitor disease progression across a broad spectrum of 
therapeutic areas
Other product revenues primarily from contract manufacturing
Specialized diagnostic solutions 
Collaboration and license agreements pursuant to which we derive 
collaboration and royalty revenues
Molecular Diagnostics Tests for Polymerase Chain Reaction (“PCR”) thermocyclers with reduced 
process time and ready-to-use reagent configurations 
Molecular amplification systems with the ability to run multiple assays at the 
same time and tests for infectious disease diagnostics
Sample-to-result molecular instruments and tests for syndromic infectious 
disease diagnostics
Point of Care Instruments and tests to provide rapid results across a broad continuum of 
POC settings, including tests for professional healthcare providers and tests 
that can be performed at home
Tests that are run on a range of portable, POC analyzers 
Tests that are visually read
Transfusion Medicine Immunohematology instruments and tests used for blood typing and 
antibody identification to help confirm patient-donor compatibility in blood 
transfusions 
Donor screening instruments and tests used for blood and plasma screening 
for infectious diseases for global customers
The products and platforms under each business unit are described below. Certain products and platforms are not available in 
all regions where we do business.
LABS
Product Primary Application
Virology Wide variety of traditional cell lines, specimen collection devices, media and 
controls for use in laboratories that culture and test for human viruses, 
including, among others, respiratory and herpes family viruses
Cell-based products under the FreshCells brand in multiple formats, 
including tubes, shell vials and multi-well plates
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)-cleared bioassay, Thyretain, 
which is used for the differential diagnosis of an autoimmune disease called 
Graves’ Disease
Specialty Products Variety of biomarkers for bone health
Clinical and research products for the assessment of osteoporosis and the 
evaluation of bone resorption/formation, which, including our metabolic 
bone markers, are used to monitor the effectiveness of therapy in 
pharmaceutical and related research
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays and reagents for the detection of 
activation products from the three main complement pathways in 
autoimmune disease
Assays developed on a microwell platform and marketed to clinicians and 
researchers under the Quidel and MicroVue brands
6
Clinical Chemistry Unique, postage-stamp-sized, dry slide technology that combines the 
spreading, masking, scavenger and reagent layers into one slide, which 
provides:
• high-quality results quickly, efficiently and economically;
• improved storage, with longer shelf life and less shelf space required;
• an eco-friendly design that eliminates water usage and reduces chemical 
waste and biohazards; and
• a comprehensive menu covering 24 therapeutic areas and approximately 
90% of a typical laboratory’s testing needs
Immunodiagnostics Enhanced chemiluminescent technology provides precision and accuracy 
along with a wide, dynamic testing range across over 60 immunoassay tests. 
Reagents are packaged in ready-to-use integrated packs that can be loaded 
continuously while testing is underway for high-throughput applications. 
These integrated packs also feature extended on-analyzer stability, enabling 
lower-throughput labs to maintain a broader test menu without incurring 
reagent waste due to expiry
Vitros Platform Seven clinical chemistry, immunoassay and integrated (combined chemistry 
and immunoassay) systems for use in centralized, higher-throughput 
(hospitals and laboratories) and decentralized, lower-throughput (physician 
offices, clinics and specialty settings) testing sites
Vitros 
XT Platform
Vitros XT 7600 integrated system and Vitros XT 3400 clinical chemistry 
analyzer for use with new XT chemistry slides, combining pairs of tests that 
are frequently used together onto single slides, offering advancements over 
prior generations:
• 40% greater test throughput when using XT slides;
• 96% first-pass yield on test results; and
• designed to offer high reliability with a 98% up-time guarantee for e-
connected U.S. customers
Vitros Results 
Management
Advanced informatics software product designed for laboratories of all sizes. 
It is focused on automating a number of repetitive manual tasks such as 
sample auto-validation, quality control management, moving averages, 
STAT sample management, sample archiving, and the development and 
deployment of advanced rules to help laboratories easily manage their 
patient populations
Vitros Automation 
Solutions
A flexible and scalable track-based system that combines Vitros analyzers 
with a number of robotic modules to help laboratories enhance their 
operations by reducing or eliminating repetitive and redundant laboratory 
tasks and the total number of human interventions required to complete 
typical laboratory testing
Testing Menu
Anemia, Bone Disease, Cardiac, Diabetes, Drugs of Abuse, General Chemistry, Hepatic, 
Immunosuppressant Drugs, Infectious Diseases, Inflammatory, Lipids, Nutritional Assessment, 
Oncology, Pancreatic, Prenatal, Renal, Reproductive Endocrinology, Respiratory, Sepsis, Spinal, 
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring, Thyroid/Metabolic, Toxicology, Urine
7
MOLECULAR DIAGNOSTICS
Product Primary Application
Lyra Open platform, real-time PCR assays for high throughput, high quality 
molecular testing to detect and identify infectious diseases, offering room-
temperature storage, reduced processing time, and ready-to-use reagent 
configurations
Solana Simplified molecular testing platform using our proprietary isothermal 
helicase-dependent amplification technology that is easy to run and can 
process 12 patient samples at the same time 
Savanna CE-marked, 510(k) approved, multiplex, real-time PCR platform, with 
customizable flexible syndromic panels that run up to 12 unique analytes 
from a single patient sample in less than 25 minutes
Savanna RVP4 assay offers simultaneous qualitative detection and 
differentiation of influenza A, influenza B, respiratory syncytial virus 
(“RSV”), and SARS-CoV-2 RNA isolated from human nasal or 
nasopharyngeal swabs
Testing Menu
Respiratory Adenovirus, Bordetella Pertussis, Influenza A+B, Parainfluenza Virus, RSV, 
Respiratory Viral Panel (Flu A+B, RSV, hMPV), Respiratory Viral Panel 4 
(Flu A+B), SARS-CoV-2, Strep A, Strep Complete
Non-respiratory Clostridium Difficile (organism), HSV 1+2/VZV, Group Strep B, 
Trichomonas
8
POINT OF CARE
Product Primary Application
Rapid Immunoassay
Sofia and Sofia 2 Easy-to-use, rapid testing using lateral-flow technology and advanced 
fluorescent immunoassay (“FIA”) chemistry
Combines unique software and Sofia FIA tests to yield automatic, objective 
results that are readily available on the instrument’s screen, in a hard-copy 
printout and in a transmissible electronic form that can network via a lab 
information system to hospital and medical center databases
Different operational modes to accommodate both small and large 
laboratories, as well as other features designed to facilitate use in a variety of 
healthcare settings, including hospitals, medical centers and small clinics
Sofia 2 systems include additional benefits and features, such as enhanced 
optics for improved performance and speed, at a cost point that better 
addresses the lower-volume segment of the diagnostic testing market
QuickVue Broad portfolio of rapid, visually read, lateral flow immunoassay products to 
diagnose a wide variety of infectious diseases and medical conditions, 
including the QuickVue At-Home OTC COVID-19 test, a leading at-home 
COVID-19 product available through many retail and online outlets
InflammaDry and 
AdenoPlus
Rapid, lateral-flow-based POC products for the detection of infectious and 
inflammatory diseases and conditions of the eye
Cardiometabolic Immunoassay
Triage and
Triage MeterPro
Portable, rapid testing platform offering a comprehensive menu of tests for 
diagnosis of critical diseases and health conditions, as well as the detection 
of certain drugs of abuse
Aids in the diagnosis, assessment and risk stratification of patients having 
critical care issues, including congestive heart failure, acute coronary 
syndromes and acute myocardial infarction, which may reduce hospital 
admissions and potentially improve clinical and economic outcomes
Triage B-type Natriuretic Peptide (“BNP”) test for use on Beckman Coulter 
(“Beckman”) lab analyzers (“BNP Business”) in connection with the 
transition of the BNP Business to Beckman
Testing Menu
Cardiac BNP, NT-proBNP, Creatine Kinase-MB, D-Dimer, hsTroponin, Myoglobin, 
Troponin I ES
Drugs of Abuse Amphetamines, Barbiturates, Benzodiazepines, Cocaine, Methadone 
Metabolite (EDDP), Methamphetamines, Opiates, PCP, THC/Cannabinoids, 
Tricyclic Antidepressants
Eye Health Acute Conjunctivitis, MMP-9 (a key inflammatory marker for dry eye)
Respiratory Infectious 
Diseases
Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG, Influenza A+B, Influenza A+B & SARS-CoV-2 
Ag, RSV, Strep A 
Non-respiratory 
Infectious Diseases
Adenoviral Conjunctivitis, Campylobacter, Chlamydia, Clostridium Difficile 
(organism), H. pylori Ab, H. pylori Ab (stool), Legionella, Lyme Disease, S. 
pneumoniae
Inflammatory Lactoferrin
Oncology Colorectal Cancer
Reproductive 
Endocrinology
Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin, Placental Growth Factor
9
TRANSFUSION MEDICINE
Product Primary Application
Immunohematology
ORTHO VISION 
Platform
Flagship immunohematology analyzers that automate blood typing, antibody 
identification and crossmatching for patient and donor blood banks
Models include ORTHO VISION, ORTHO VISION Max, and next-
generation ORTHO VISION Swift and ORTHO VISION Swift Max, which 
are designed to be faster, quieter and even more cyber-secure than previous 
generations
Ortho Workstation Semi-automated immunohematology benchtop analyzer for lower-volume 
blood centers or centers that need semi-automated testing
Ortho Optix Semi-automated testing platform used to read manual test results, designed 
with improved software and ability to integrate with laboratory information 
systems and offers improved workflow and 99% concordance with ORTHO 
VISION test results
ID-Micro Typing 
System (ID-MTS) Gel 
Cards
Test consumables that utilize column agglutination technology (“CAT”) for 
our immunohematology instruments sold in the U.S., designed to provide 
reliable test results and simplify test workflow
BIOVUE Cassettes Test consumables that utilize CAT for our immunohematology instruments 
sold outside of the U.S., designed to provide reliable test results and simplify 
test workflow
Ortho Sera Reagents Comprehensive immunohematology test menu that we believe covers more 
than 99% of most tested blood antigens regularly required for transfusion 
screening globally
Donor Screening
ORTHO VERSEIA 
Integrated Processor 
(“VIP”)
Automated pipetting and processing system that combines the ORTHO 
VERSEIA pipettor and ORTHO Summit Processor to enable end-to-end 
pipetting and processing for tests used for blood and plasma screening for 
infectious diseases
Donor Testing 
Serology
Comprehensive set of infectious disease screens, including important tests 
for tropical diseases like Chagas that are critical for care in emerging 
markets
Global Services
In addition to the products we provide, our services are a critical element of how we deliver value to our customers. As of 
December 31, 2023, we had approximately 1,000 service teammates globally. We employ highly trained service professionals, 
including laboratory specialists with advanced qualifications.
Our highly valued suite of solutions include: 
• Guarantee 98% up-time to our e-connected U.S. customers−High instrument reliability and a proactive maintenance 
program.
• E-CONNECTIVITY Remote Monitoring Software−More than 80% of our installed base of Vitros 5600, XT 7600 and 
ORTHO VISION platforms are e-connected, enabling remote monitoring and improved analyzer availability.
• ValuMetrix−A highly valued consulting service proven to increase laboratory workflow, productivity and laboratory 
service levels utilizing lean principles and process excellence. This service offering provides actionable insights into 
demand for new products, services and workflow.
• Global Technical Solution Center−Seven technical solution centers delivering first-line support in over 15 languages, 
meaning we can resolve service issues remotely without an on-site visit approximately two-thirds of the time.
• Smart Service Mobile App−First-in-class technology enabled on iPhone and Android devices that allows our service 
teams to receive up-to-date analyzer health checks, proactive alerts and performance monitoring to help achieve the 
highest levels of reliability.
• Training and Education−Flexible educational resources for the lifetime of the customer relationship, including virtual 
technical training, continuing education and professional development.
• Smart Start−Concierge implementation program led by certified project managers. Easier implementation using 
collaborative software to keep up to date with real-time progress reports, customized dashboards and status updates.
10
• Merged Reality−Enables product experts to provide remote ‘side by side’ assistance to field service engineers and 
customers through mobile devices, including smart glasses. This allows both parties to see the same thing at the same 
time and provide guided instruction leading to better and faster fix rates.
• Aquant AI−A field-based machine fed tool used to troubleshoot instrument issues with standardized solutions.
We also provide our Virena wireless cellular data management and surveillance system that operates as a cloud-based solution 
connecting Sofia and Solana instruments across a healthcare system and automatically transmitting de-identified test results to a 
secure database. With Virena, a health system, physician office laboratory (“POL”), urgent care center or retail clinic has the 
ability to compile, analyze, map and generate reports of de-identified test results, improving operational efficiencies, quality 
and patient outcome initiatives.
Digital Solutions and Innovation
We are building our enterprise digital product strategy, platform and portfolio, which we believe helps improve our customers’ 
clinical and operational outcomes. Our focus is on enabling our customers to deliver smart, connected care across a variety of 
clinical environments. We strive to connect our instruments to healthcare providers, labs and policymakers through proprietary 
and third-party solutions, creating valuable data assets. Our portfolio of workflow automation solutions, such as Ortho Connect, 
Ortho Plus and myVirena, help simplify the testing and instrument management process. We are also actively developing other 
products designed to help personalize and elevate individual test results, such as the QVue companion mobile application for 
our COVID-19 at-home tests, potentially resulting in specific clinical insights or actions.
Our Strategic Capabilities and Competitive Strengths
There is significant competition in the development and marketing of in vitro diagnostic (“IVD”) products, and innovation, 
product development, regulatory clearance to market and commercial introduction of new IVD technologies can occur rapidly. 
We believe that some of the most significant competitive factors in the rapid diagnostic market include convenience, speed to 
result, specimen flexibility, product menu, clinical needs, price, reimbursement levels, product performance and customer 
service, as well as effective distribution, advertising, promotion and brand recognition. The competitive factors in the central 
laboratory market are also significant and include price, product performance, reimbursement, compatibility with routine 
specimen procurement methods, and manufacturing products in testing formats that meet the workflow demands of larger 
volume laboratories. There are several global companies with whom we compete, as well as regional and local companies 
focused on particular markets and/or technologies. Some of our principal competitors include, among others, Abbott 
Laboratories, Roche, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Danaher, Siemens Healthineers, Diasorin, Bio-Rad, Hologic, Qiagen, 
bioMérieux and Revitty. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we 
have.
We believe we are well positioned to drive sustained and profitable growth through an ethos of customer-centric decision 
making and behavior, which informs everything we do from product development to commercial execution. This disciplined 
focus on serving customers has resulted in, and we believe will continue to create, a business model that can deliver profitable 
growth and shareholder returns. The cash we generate allows us to reinvest in and reinforce our competitive strengths and 
strategic capabilities, which then benefit from our global footprint to enable us to be a leader across profitable and high-growth 
market segments. The competitive strengths that serve as our foundation of success today and can drive future growth include 
four key aspects, all of which benefit from our talented people and loyal customers:
1. Superior customer experience and brand loyalty. Over our more than 80 years supporting the IVD testing needs of 
our customers, we have developed deep and enduring relationships with our customers. Our service program allows us 
to retain and grow our customer base by providing an industry-leading customer experience driven by quality of 
service, innovation and access to a diverse product portfolio.
2. Innovation and research and development (“R&D”) capabilities that address unmet needs in new and existing 
market segments. We intend to invest in the next generation of instrumentation for each of our business units while 
keeping abreast of emerging technologies and use-cases, some of which may lead to new business units or revenue 
streams. Our key strengths include new assay format development, new instrument systems development and the 
complex integration of the two. In addition, to create new opportunities, manage costs and adapt to a rapidly changing 
industry, we may also enter into strategic partnerships as part of our R&D process.
3. Operational scale driven by investments in U.S. manufacturing capabilities and an extensive and balanced 
global commercial footprint across more than 130 countries. We leverage our global footprint of approximately 
2,900 commercial sales, service and regional marketing teammates to facilitate successful delivery of innovative 
solutions to meet our customers’ needs in both developed and emerging markets.
11
4. Leadership team dedicated to preserving a culture of continuous improvement and employee happiness. We 
understand that our success relies upon the talent and dedication of our employees. That is why we are committed to 
attracting, retaining and developing the best talent in the industry. Our culture puts our team members first and 
prioritizes actions that support happiness, inspiration and engagement. We strive to build meaningful connections with 
each other as we believe that employee happiness and business success are symbiotic.
Business Strategy
We are driven to transform diagnostics into action for more people in more places. We strive to achieve this by serving several 
market segments throughout the healthcare continuum, from large labs to physicians’ offices. While these care settings have 
historically been distinct and unrelated, healthcare is consolidating. This consolidation translates into community systems 
consisting of labs, hospitals, physicians’ offices and urgent care clinics. Success in one care setting creates new sales 
opportunities in another care setting within the same system.
As we look to the future, we see many opportunities for continued growth. In the short term, our strategy is to invest in R&D to 
offer a broader test menu to more care settings for more patients. Both routine and novel tests are important for leveraging our 
large and growing installed base of instruments in both laboratories and POC settings. We have also entered the at-home testing 
market and see opportunities to benefit from additional at-home tests, such as for the flu and RSV.
Additionally, we have made investments to design and develop solutions that are intended to drive laboratory automation and 
efficiency, improve access to new and novel diagnostics, and enable patients and providers to experience the full benefits of a 
remote and digitized healthcare system. For example, with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, physicians and patients 
experienced a rapid shift to telemedicine and at-home testing. Going forward, we believe it is important to continue to build 
digital capabilities and solutions into our offerings to take advantage of this trend and our expectations that it will continue to 
emerge and evolve. 
Longer term, we intend to continue to invest in areas with unmet clinical needs. We are aware of additional markets in which 
we do not yet compete, but that may benefit from our R&D capabilities and larger operational scale. We also plan to continue to 
explore the technology and content landscapes for strategic assets. Given the rapid pace of change and deep expertise needed 
within some of these areas, we expect to leverage third-party partnerships and acquisitions to reduce some of the technical and 
commercial risks and potentially increase our speed to market with innovative offerings. 
We intend to pursue strategic opportunities that could result in new and relevant technologies and capabilities, or accelerate our 
commercial growth in attractive end-markets and geographies. We expect to maintain a disciplined approach to inorganic 
growth.
Current initiatives to execute on this strategy include the following:
• develop and deliver products that represent significant market opportunities, and compete effectively in market 
segments where service and quality are important;
• focus our R&D efforts;
• leverage our large direct sales team to enhance our cross-selling capabilities across our four business units, and 
strengthen our relationships with integrated delivery networks, laboratories and hospitals;
• continue to invest in our digital health solutions, including our mobile applications, to expand into new and growing 
markets; and
• pursue potential acquisitions to support our strategic initiatives.
Research and Development
We continue to focus our R&D efforts on the following areas:
• creation of new and improved products for use on our installed base;
• development of new proprietary product platforms for all of our business units; and
• pursuit of collaboration with other companies for new and existing products and markets. 
We balance our R&D efforts against our R&D team’s capacity, development timelines and overall cost. Our R&D team is 
comprised of a balanced mix of experienced professionals with years of experience in the diagnostics industry and recently 
trained technologists, and together, they have know-how and technical capabilities in key areas, such as biomedical science, 
information technology (“IT”) and engineering. Key strengths of our team include new assay format development, new 
instrument systems development and the complex integration of the two. In addition, in order to create new opportunities, 
manage costs and adapt to a rapidly changing industry, we also plan to enter into strategic partnerships as part of our R&D 
process.
12
R&D expenses were $246.8 million for fiscal year 2023, $190.5 million for fiscal year 2022, which includes the impact of 
Ortho’s operations from the date of the Combinations, and $95.7 million for fiscal year 2021. We anticipate significant 
investment of our financial resources to product and technology R&D in the foreseeable future.
Sales, Marketing and Distribution
Our current business strategy is designed to serve the continuum of healthcare delivery needs globally, from POC clinicians 
located in doctor’s office practices, to moderately complex POLs, and to highly complex hospitals, laboratories and blood and 
plasma centers. We are also increasingly prioritizing retail and online outlets, such as large pharmacies, to market and distribute 
our QuickVue At-Home OTC COVID-19 tests and other respiratory products. Within the inherent operational diversity of these 
various segments, we focus on differentiating ourselves and enhancing our market leadership by specializing in the diagnosis 
and monitoring of select disease states, conditions and wellness categories.
Certain of our revenue is driven by a “razor/razor blade” business model. Through this model, we generally sell or place 
instruments under long-term contracts, which support the ongoing sale of our assays, reagents and consumables. Our 
instruments are closed systems, requiring customers to purchase the assays, reagents and consumables from us. These sales 
generate a high proportion of our recurring revenues. 
Our sales team is comprised of highly skilled and experienced professionals. We sell products globally and market and 
distribute products worldwide in a variety of ways, including through a mix of direct, indirect and hybrid distribution strategies. 
Across our global footprint, we operate a region-specific sales model. Our developed markets, specifically in North America 
and Western Europe, are served primarily through direct sales; however, we generally utilize a combination of direct sales and 
third-party distributors in emerging markets, such as China, Asia Pacific, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Latin 
America, as we believe this model is more commercially effective in those regions. Our primary distribution centers are located 
in North America and Europe.
In North America, we use a generalized sales force for each of our business units other than for donor screening within 
Transfusion Medicine, which utilizes a separate specialist sales force. Our North America distribution strategy takes into 
account the highly fragmented POC market, with many small or medium-sized customers. To reach customers using POC 
diagnostic tests, a network of national and regional distributors is employed, as well as our own sales force. We have expanded 
the size of our North America sales force in the past few years. This sales force works closely with our key distributors to drive 
market penetration of our products.
In Europe, our employees support sales and marketing activities in key countries, such as Germany, Italy, France and the U.K. 
In addition, we have created shared service centers in Galway, Ireland, Prague, Czech Republic and Strasbourg, France to 
support general and administrative, technical support and customer service functions in Europe.
In the Asia Pacific region, which includes China, Japan and India, our employees support sales and marketing activities, 
primarily for the Point of Care, Labs and Transfusion Medicine business units. In addition, we have created shared service 
centers in Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India to support general and administrative, technical support and customer service 
functions.
In Latin America, our employees support sales and marketing activities in key countries, such as Brazil and Mexico.
Our global team strives to deliver best-in-class customer service and support by surrounding our customers with devoted and 
experienced professionals. Our call center team and field application specialists serve as the first line of contact for our 
customers and are available to provide customer training and ongoing customer support. In addition, our network of field 
engineers is responsible for installing our instruments and providing onsite customer support if necessary.
Our marketing strategy is focused on ensuring that our key product portfolios are supported by clinical validation and health 
economic and outcomes research that show that our tests deliver fast, high-quality results, are cost-effective to use with lower 
total cost of ownership, and improve patient outcomes. Our marketing strategy also focuses on effectively marketing to 
customers a differentiated value proposition and maintaining our brand strength as further discussed above in the section 
entitled “Our Strategic Capabilities and Competitive Strengths.” 
We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from a few customers and distributors. No customer individually 
accounted for more than 10% of our Total revenues for fiscal year 2023. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data—Note 4. Revenue” for more information.
Manufacturing
Our manufacturing operations benefit from our broad global footprint, scale and workforce capabilities. We believe our plant 
capacity and available space are sufficient to accommodate growth, maintain quality and support continuity. Our primary 
13
manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego, California, Carlsbad, California, Athens, Ohio, Raritan, New Jersey, 
Rochester, New York, Pompano Beach, Florida, and Pencoed, Wales. 
Our McKellar Court, San Diego, California and our Carlsbad, California lateral flow manufacturing facilities consist of 
laboratories devoted to tissue culture, cell culture, protein purification or immunochemistry, and production areas dedicated to 
manufacturing and assembly. In the manufacturing process, biological and chemical supplies and equipment are used. We have 
invested in a high degree of automated equipment for the assembly and inspection processes. These facilities operate under a 
Quality Management System (“QMS”) per International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) standard and regulatory 
regulations. These facilities are certified to ISO 13485:2016 and Medical Device Single Audit Program (“MDSAP”) medical 
device standards. Many of the immunoassay products manufactured at these facilities are packaged and shipped by a local third 
party.
Our Summers Ridge, San Diego, California facility consists of laboratories that are involved in mammalian cell culture, 
bacterial fermentation, protein purification and modification, as well as other techniques involved in immunoassay reagent 
manufacturing. This facility has production areas dedicated to creating and processing plastic components that are subsequently 
transformed into finished devices (cardiac and drugs of abuse products) using customized manufacturing equipment, including 
specialized automation. This facility is certified to ISO 13485:2016 and MDSAP medical device standards. Most of the 
products are packaged and subsequently distributed by our San Diego distribution center.
Our Athens, Ohio facility consists of a variety of clean room and chemistry laboratories and customized reagent filling and 
packaging areas to support the manufacturing at the facility of all products under current good manufacturing practices 
(“cGMPs”). This facility supports the manufacturing of our molecular nucleic acid amplification products, our living tissue cell 
culture and antibody-based products, as well as our enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (“ELISA”). We use a wide variety of 
biological and chemical supplies in our manufacturing processes. We also utilize specialized equipment for the lyophilization of 
reagents, cell culture growth, protein purification and a variety of automation for dispensing of antibodies, reagents and 
solutions. This facility is certified to ISO 13485:2016 and MDSAP medical device standards. Packaging, warehousing and 
shipping logistics with cold chain storage capability are handled at this facility.
Our Raritan, New Jersey facility manufactures our IVD donor screening and immunohematology products that are distributed 
globally. Manufacturing processes consist of formulation, filtration, filling, labeling, chemistry analysis, serological and 
microbial testing, as well as packaging. The product filling process occurs in a microbially controlled filling area using highly 
automated equipment and systems. This facility is a CBER licensed biologics/510(k) facility, certified to ISO 13485 and 
MDSAP medical device standards, ISO14001:2015, Environmental Management System, and the OSHA Voluntary Protection 
Program (“VPP”) Star Site. This facility is recognized for environmental stewardship by the New Jersey Department of 
Environmental Protection. Warehousing, direct shipping and shipping logistics with cold chain storage capability are handled at 
this facility with products transported to our distribution facilities for onward handling to end customers. 
Our Rochester, New York facility consists of three sites for slide manufacturing, fluid manufacturing and CNP microwell and 
equipment manufacturing. The Rochester sites manufacture the slides, microwells and fluids used for clinical diagnostic assays 
run on our Vitros analyzers. Manufacturing capabilities include formulation, lyophilization, filling, coating, slitting, custom 
featuring, assembly and packaging, all under cGMPs. This facility is certified to ISO 13485:2016 and MDSAP medical device 
standards and ISO 14001 and is part of the OSHA VPP program for safety. Warehousing and shipping logistics with cold chain 
storage capability are handled at this facility with products transported to our distribution facilities for onward handling to end 
customers.
Our Pompano Beach, Florida facility manufactures our immunohematology CAT products that are distributed to the North 
American market, encompassing the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The manufacturing processes include subassembly 
activities required for reagent formulation, product filling, chemistry analysis, serological testing and product packaging. The 
product filling process occurs in a microbially controlled filling area using highly automated, state-of-the-art equipment and 
systems. This facility is a CBER licensed biologics/510(k) facility, certified to ISO 13485 and MDSAP medical device 
standards, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. Warehousing and shipping logistics with cold chain storage capability are handled at this 
facility with products transported to our distribution facilities for onward handling to end customers.
Our Pencoed, Wales facility manufactures certain of our immunoassay and immunohematology products that are distributed 
globally. The immunoassay manufacturing processes include conjugation, purification, biological formulation, lyophilization, 
dispensing, testing and packaging. The processes are highly automated with state-of-the-art systems and key processes are 
executed in an environmentally controlled area. By utilizing electronic batch records, each product is manufactured with high 
quality and consistency. This facility is certified to ISO 13485 and MDSAP medical device standards, ISO 14001 and ISO 
45001. Warehousing and shipping logistics with cold chain storage capability are handled at this facility with products 
transported to our distribution facilities for onward handling to end customers.
We aim to conduct our manufacturing in compliance with QMS regulatory requirements of the U.S., Australia, Brazil, Canada, 
Japan, Europe, South Korea and certain other countries. Our manufacturing facilities have passed routine regulatory inspections 
14
confirming compliance with the QMS regulatory requirements. Our facilities are registered with various regulatory bodies, 
including the FDA and other international and local public health and regulatory agencies.
Suppliers and Raw Materials
We obtain raw materials from reputable outside suppliers and believe our business relationships with them are good. Some of 
our raw materials are available from a limited number of sources. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we encountered some 
increasing pressures on raw material pricing, though they were less severe in fiscal year 2023 than in 2022. To help mitigate 
these supply chain challenges, we are (i) partnering with suppliers to invest in additional capacity and raw material inventory, 
(ii) diversifying our supply base, where possible, to minimize reliance on a single source of supply for key raw materials and 
components and (iii) creating redundancy in our global supply chain. In addition, we routinely evaluate our supply chain for 
potential gaps and continue to take other steps intended to help address continuity. For more information related to our supply 
chain, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Supply 
Chains” and Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business, Strategy and Operations—Interruptions and 
delays in the supply of raw materials, components, equipment and other products and services could adversely affect our 
operations and financial results.”
Collaboration Arrangements 
We have various collaboration arrangements, which provide us with the rights to develop, produce and market products using 
certain know-how, technology and patent rights maintained by our collaborative partners. These arrangements are often entered 
into in order to share risks and rewards related to a specific program or product. Our collaborative arrangements include a 
number of ongoing relationships for test development, instrument development and automation track design and distribution.
In connection with the Combinations, we acquired the ongoing collaboration arrangement (the “Joint Business”) between Ortho 
and Grifols Diagnostic Solutions, Inc. (“Grifols”), under which Ortho and Grifols agreed to pursue a collaboration relating to 
Ortho’s Hepatitis and HIV diagnostics business. The arrangement is governed by an agreement (as amended, the “Grifols 
Agreement”) originally entered into in 1989 with a 50-year term, which, among other things, provides for a profit sharing 
arrangement whereby, the profits we generate from our production and sale of Hepatitis and HIV diagnostics products are 
shared with Grifols, and the profits generated by Grifols from its sale of certain antigens and licensing of certain intellectual 
property rights are shared with us. The Grifols Agreement also gives us the right to use such intellectual property. The majority 
of the patents underlying these intellectual property rights have expired. Grifols also supplies us with a portion of the antigens 
used in its production of these diagnostics products.
Today, the most significant benefit to us under the Grifols Agreement is the manufacture and sale by us of HIV and Hepatitis 
tests, which are solely performed by us. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, the revenue associated with the use of 
this patented intellectual property was less than 1% of our total revenues and the expense associated with the antigens supplied 
to us by Grifols was less than 2% of our cost of goods sold.
The initial 50-year term of the Grifols Agreement will expire on December 31, 2039, at which time it will automatically renew 
for successive five-year periods unless either party has notified the other at least five years in advance of such date that it 
wishes to terminate the Grifols Agreement. Notwithstanding the initial term, in Europe, the Grifols Agreement will terminate on 
a country-by-country basis upon the expiration of the last patent right with respect to such country, provided that either party 
has a right to extend the Grifols Agreement for successive one-year terms by giving the other party notice prior to the 
termination date. To date, the parties have extended the Grifols Agreement for Europe on an annual basis. The Grifols 
Agreement may also be terminated by the non-breaching party if there is a breach or default of the agreement which is not 
cured during a 60-day cure period.
Seasonality
Revenues from our respiratory products are subject to, and significantly affected by, the seasonal demands of the cold, flu and 
RSV seasons, which are typically more prevalent during the fall and winter. Historically, revenues from our influenza products 
have varied from year to year based, in large part, on the severity, length and timing of the onset of the cold, flu and RSV 
seasons. In addition, the SARS-CoV-2 virus may have similar seasonal demands and impacts on our revenues in the future. 
Government Regulations
U.S. Regulations of Medical Devices
The testing, manufacture and commercialization of the majority of our diagnostics products and analyzers in the U.S. are 
subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA as medical devices and corresponding state 
regulatory agencies. Pursuant to the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”) and the regulations promulgated 
15
thereunder, the FDA regulates the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution and promotion of medical 
devices. 
In the U.S., medical devices are classified into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) depending on the degree of risk associated 
with each medical device and the extent of manufacturer and regulatory control needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness. 
Class I devices are those with the lowest risk to the patient and are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by 
adherence to the FDA’s General Controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of 
cGMPs for medical devices known as the Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) facility registration and product listing, reporting 
of adverse medical events, and truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising and promotional materials. Class II devices are 
subject to the FDA’s General Controls, and special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and 
effectiveness of the device, like performance standards, post-market surveillance, patient registries and FDA guidance 
documents. Class III devices generally pose the highest risks, such as life sustaining, life supporting or some implantable 
devices, and are typically subject to premarket approval to ensure their safety and effectiveness. Our current products are 
generally Class I or II. Certain of our Vitros immunodiagnostics are Class III.
While most Class I devices are exempt from the premarket notification requirement under Section 510(k) of the FDCA 
(“510(k)”), manufacturers of most Class II devices are required to submit to the FDA a premarket notification under 510(k) 
requesting permission to commercially distribute the device. The FDA’s permission to commercially distribute a device subject 
to a 510(k) premarket notification is generally known as 510(k) clearance, which can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain 
process. The FDA has been requiring more rigorous demonstration of product performance as part of the 510(k) process, 
including submission of extensive clinical data. It generally takes from three months to one year to obtain clearance, but may 
take longer. A premarket approval (“PMA”) application must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate the 
safety and effectiveness of the device, typically including the results of clinical investigations, bench tests and reference 
laboratory studies. In addition, modifications or enhancements for existing products that could significantly affect their safety or 
effectiveness or constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, will require new submissions to the FDA. Class III 
devices require approval of a PMA application evidencing safety and effectiveness of the device. Data and content requirements 
for premarket submissions, including 510(k) notifications and PMAs, can change over time. For example, beginning in March 
2023, premarket submissions for “cyber devices” must contain certain information about device cybersecurity. “Cyber devices” 
encompass any device that: (1) includes software validated, installed or authorized by the sponsor as a device or in a device; (2) 
has the ability to connect to the internet; and (3) contains any technological characteristics validated, installed or authorized by 
the sponsor that could be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. We currently market the majority of our diagnostic products in the 
U.S. pursuant to 510(k) clearances and PMA approvals.
The FDA can authorize the emergency use of an unapproved medical product or an unapproved use of an approved medical 
product, referred to as emergency use authorization (“EUA”), for certain emergency circumstances after the Secretary of the 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has made a declaration of emergency justifying authorization of 
emergency use. An EUA allows use in a public health emergency to diagnose, treat or prevent serious or life-threatening 
diseases or conditions caused by emerging infectious disease threats when there are no adequate, approved and available 
alternatives. The FDA may also waive otherwise applicable cGMP requirements to accommodate emergency response needs. 
Products subject to an EUA must still comply with the conditions of the EUA, including labeling and marketing requirements. 
Moreover, the authorization to market products under an EUA is limited to the period of time the public health emergency 
declaration is in effect, as determined by HHS. Some of our current respiratory products were initially authorized by the FDA 
under EUAs and such EUAs remain in effect until the relevant EUA declaration under Section 564 of the FDCA is terminated 
or the FDA otherwise revokes a specific EUA. If and when HHS publishes a notice of termination of such EUA declaration, 
and following the end of any applicable enforcement discretion period, we must comply with applicable FDCA requirements 
for these respiratory products, including as required, 510(k) notification or PMA submission. 
The FDA’s Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment of 1988 (“CLIA”) regulates laboratory testing and requires clinical 
laboratories to be certified by their state, as well as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), before diagnostic 
testing can be conducted. Laboratories using our assays must obtain a CLIA certificate. Waived testing is designated by CLIA 
as simple testing that carries a low risk for an incorrect result. The CLIA-waived designation is critical for most of our products 
that are intended for POC settings. The FDA’s current guidance entitled “Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: 
Recommendations for Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 CLIA Waiver Applications for Manufacturers of 
In Vitro Diagnostic Devices” sets forth requirements for obtaining a CLIA waiver, which are onerous and have increased the 
time and cost we are required to spend to obtain a CLIA waiver.
Any devices we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA clearance or approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the 
FDA and certain state agencies, including adherence to QSR relating to testing, control, documentation and other quality 
assurance requirements. We must also comply with Medical Device Reporting requirements, which mandates reporting to the 
FDA of any incident in which a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which a device 
malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling 
16
and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade 
Commission (“FTC”). Current FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved 
uses.
U.S. Regulation of Biological Products
Certain of our blood screening products are regulated by the FDA as biological products, also called biologics. In the U.S., 
biologics are subject to regulation under the FDCA and the Public Health Service Act, and other federal, state, local and foreign 
statutes and regulations. The process required by the FDA before biologics may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the 
following:
• completion of preclinical laboratory tests and animal studies performed in accordance with the FDA’s Good 
Laboratory Practice requirements;
• submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (“IND”) which must become effective before 
human clinical trials may begin. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational 
new drug product to humans;
• approval by an Institutional Review Board or ethics committee at each clinical site before the trial is commenced;
• performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety, purity and potency of the 
proposed biologic product candidate for its intended purpose;
• preparation of and submission to the FDA of a Biologics License Application (“BLA”) after completion of all pivotal 
clinical trials;
• satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee review, if applicable;
• a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of a BLA to file the application for review;
• satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the 
proposed product is to be produced to assess compliance with cGMPs and to assure that the facilities, methods and 
controls are adequate to preserve the biological product’s continued safety, purity and potency, and of selected clinical 
investigation sites to assess compliance with Good Clinical Practices; and
• FDA review and approval of the BLA to permit commercial marketing of the product for particular indications for use 
in the U.S.
Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, the results of 
product development, nonclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to 
market the product for one or more indications. The BLA must include all relevant data available from preclinical and clinical 
studies, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the 
product’s chemistry, manufacturing, controls, and proposed labeling, among other things. The submission of a BLA requires 
payment of a substantial application user fee to the FDA, unless a waiver or exemption applies. 
After the FDA evaluates a BLA and conducts inspections of manufacturing facilities where the investigational product and/or 
its drug substance will be produced and of select clinical trial sites, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a Complete 
Response Letter (“CRL”). An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing 
information for specific indications. In issuing the CRL, the FDA may recommend actions that the applicant might take to place 
the BLA in condition for approval, including requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA may delay or refuse 
approval of a BLA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional testing or information and/or require 
post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor safety or efficacy of a product. 
If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be granted for particular indications and may include 
limitations on the indicated uses for which such product may be marketed. The FDA also may condition approval on, among 
other things, changes to proposed labeling or the development of adequate controls and specifications. Once approved, the FDA 
may withdraw the product approval if compliance with pre- and post-marketing requirements is not maintained or if problems 
occur after the product reaches the marketplace. The FDA may require one or more post-market studies and surveillance to 
further assess and monitor the product’s safety and effectiveness after commercialization and may limit further marketing of the 
product based on the results of these post-marketing studies. 
Any biologics manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the 
FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to record-keeping, reporting of adverse experiences, periodic 
reporting, product sampling and distribution, and advertising and promotion of the product. After approval, most changes to the 
approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There 
also are continuing annual program fees for any marketed products. Biologic manufacturers and their subcontractors are 
required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced 
inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP, which imposes certain procedural and 
17
documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly 
regulated, and, depending on the significance of the change, may require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA 
regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting requirements upon us 
and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money 
and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMP and other aspects of regulatory 
compliance. 
FDA Enforcement
The FDA may withdraw a marketing authorization if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained 
or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, 
including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with 
regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information, imposition of post-
market studies or clinical studies to assess new safety risks, or imposition of distribution restrictions or other restrictions. Other 
potential consequences include, among other things: restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete 
withdrawal of the product from the market, product recalls, fines, warning letters, untitled letters, clinical holds on clinical 
studies, refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, product seizures or 
detention, refusal to permit the import or export of products, consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements, the issuance of 
corrective information, injunctions, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 
In addition, the FDA closely regulates the marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of biologics and medical devices. A 
company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy, purity and potency that are cleared or approved by the 
FDA and in accordance with the provisions of the authorized label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and 
regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in, among other 
things, adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties.
Regulations Outside of the U.S.
For marketing outside the U.S., we are subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical testing and 
marketing approval for our products. These requirements vary by jurisdiction, differ from those in the U.S., and may require us 
to perform additional or different preclinical or clinical testing regardless of whether we have obtained FDA clearance or 
approval. The amount of time required to obtain necessary approvals varies from that required for FDA clearance or approval. 
In many foreign countries, pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required.
Our initial focus for obtaining marketing approval outside the U.S. is typically in the European Union (“EU”), Australia, Brazil, 
Canada, China, Japan and the U.K. EU regulations and directives generally classify healthcare products either as medicinal 
products, medical devices or IVDs. In order for medical devices to be placed on the European market or put into service, they 
must bear a CE marking. The CE marking may only be affixed if the product meets the essential safety and performance 
requirements. Manufacturers must establish a specific quality management system that ensures that a risk management 
procedure and a clinical evaluation are carried out for each device. The conformity assessment usually involves an audit of the 
manufacturer’s quality system by a notified body accredited by an EU member state and, depending on the type of device, a 
review of the technical file from the manufacturer on the safety and performance of the device. In some other cases, the notified 
body must seek a scientific opinion from specific expert panels or the European Medical Agency before issuing a CE 
certificate.
In addition, the EU has adopted the EU Medical Device Regulation (EU 2017/745) (the “EU MDR”) and the In Vitro 
Diagnostic Regulation (EU 2017/746) (the “EU IVDR”), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale 
of medical devices than in the U.S., including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems and post-market 
surveillance. The compliance deadlines for the EU MDR and EU IVDR were May 2021 and May 2022, respectively. The 
transition period provided for in the EU MDR for existing certifications issued under the previous Medical Devices Directive 
will end on May 26, 2024. For certain medical devices, the transition period was extended and is scheduled to end between 
December, 31, 2026 and December 31 2028, depending on the class of the device and the fulfillment of certain additional 
conditions (EU 2023/607). The EU IVDR has been applicable since May 26, 2022. In January 2022, the European Parliament 
and the Council adopted a staggered extension of its transition period, for certain existing certifications, ranging from May 26, 
2025 for high risk IVDs, May 26, 2026 for medium risk IVDs, May 26, 2027 for lower risk IVDs, and to May 26, 2028 for 
certain provisions concerning devices manufactured and used in health institutions (EU 2022/112). However, the transition 
periods might still be subject to change.
Complying with these regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. Failure to meet these regulatory 
requirements could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to the EU 
requirements. 
18
Chinese regulations require registration of diagnostic products with China’s National Medical Products Administration 
(“NMPA,” formerly CFDA), including NMPA’s Announcement (No. 104, 2020), which provides an accelerated pathway for 
the localization of imported medical devices and IVD products in China by permitting (for certain classes or products) the same 
medical approval license previously approved by the mainland authorities to apply to foreign invested enterprises established in 
China by the licensee of such medical approval license, providing for the same product design and equivalent quality system 
that is traceable to the imported licensed product. Additional clinical trials in China are typically required for registration 
purposes. ISO certification is included in applications for registration to NMPA. Japanese regulations require registration of 
IVD products with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. For products marketed in Canada, registration is 
required with Health Canada. For products marketed in the U.K., approvals must be obtained from the U.K.’s Medicine and 
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency. For products marketed in Australia, registration is required with the Therapeutic 
Goods Administration. IVD products in Brazil are regulated by the Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria. For our products 
marketed in Canada, Japan, Brazil, Australia and the U.S., the MDSAP is a single regulatory audit of our QMS that satisfies the 
requirements of all five of these jurisdictions. 
Other Healthcare Laws
Our products are subject to various healthcare-related laws regulating fraud and abuse, R&D, pricing, sales and marketing 
practices, and the privacy and security of health information. Among other things, these laws and others generally: (1) prohibit 
the provision of anything of value in exchange for the referral of patients or for the purchase, order, or recommendation of any 
item or service reimbursed by a federal healthcare program, including Medicare and Medicaid; (2) require that claims for 
payment submitted to federal healthcare programs be truthful; and (3) require the maintenance of certain government licenses 
and permits. Specific health-care laws and regulations that we may be subject to include:
• the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, which prohibits a physician from making referrals for certain designated 
health services payable by Medicare to an entity with which he or she (or an immediate family member) has a financial 
relationship, and prohibits the entity from presenting or causing to be presented claims to Medicare for those referred 
services;
• the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, 
offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, where one purpose is to induce either the referral of an 
individual for, or the purchase order or recommendation of, any item or services for which payment may be made 
under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The U.S. government has interpreted this law 
broadly to apply to the marketing and sales activities of medical device manufacturers; 
• the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the False Claims Act (“FCA”), which prohibits, among other 
things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from 
Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs that are false or fraudulent. Moreover, the government may 
assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute 
constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA;
• the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration 
to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s decision 
to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier;
• the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), which, in addition to privacy protections 
applicable to healthcare providers and other entities, prohibits, among other things, executing a scheme to defraud any 
healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 
• the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act which requires certain applicable manufacturers of drugs, devices, 
biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under certain federal healthcare programs, to monitor 
and report to CMS, certain payments and other transfers of value to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, 
optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), certain other healthcare providers, including physician assistants and nurse 
practitioners, and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their 
immediate family members;
• the FDCA, which prohibits, among other things, the adulteration or misbranding of drugs, biologics and medical 
devices, and regulates device marketing;
• U.S. federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities that 
potentially harm customers; and
• state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply 
to item or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws requiring device 
companies to comply with specific compliance standards, restrict payments made to healthcare providers and other 
potential referral sources, and report information related to payments and other transfers of value to healthcare 
19
providers or marketing expenditures and state laws related to insurance fraud in the case of claims involving private 
insurers. 
Privacy, Data Security and Data Protection Laws
We are subject to privacy, data security and data protection laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, as well as customer-
imposed requirements, as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive information in the 
course of our business. Specific privacy, data security and data protection laws that we and our customers may be subject to 
include:
• HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, which 
imposes, among other things, privacy, data security and security breach reporting obligations with respect to protected 
health information (“PHI”) on covered entities and business associates. These requirements include entering into 
agreements that require business associates to protect PHI provided by the covered entity against improper use or 
disclosure, among other things; following certain standards for the privacy of PHI, which limit the disclosure of a 
patient’s past, present or future physical or mental health or condition or information about a patient’s receipt of health 
care if the information identifies, or could reasonably be used to identify, the individual; ensuring the confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of all PHI created, received, maintained or transmitted in electronic form to identify and 
protect against reasonably anticipated threats to the security and integrity of such PHI or impermissible uses or 
disclosures of such PHI; and reporting of security breaches involving PHI to individuals, regulators, business 
associates and the media;
• U.S. state privacy laws that govern the privacy and data security of personal information, including health information, 
in certain circumstances. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”) creates individual privacy rights for 
California consumers and imposes privacy and data security obligations on certain entities that do business in 
California, including to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and to provide rights to California residents in 
relation to their personal information. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which amends the CCPA, 
became fully operative on January 1, 2023 and imposes additional data protection obligations on covered businesses, 
including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, new audit requirements for certain higher risk 
data processing, and opt outs for certain transfers of personal information and uses of sensitive data. It also created a 
new data protection agency, the California Privacy Protection Agency, which is granted full administrative power, 
authority, and jurisdiction to implement and enforce the CCPA and CPRA. A similar law in Virginia went into effect 
on January 1, 2023 and in Colorado and Connecticut on July 1, 2023, and similar laws also have passed in other states, 
including in Delaware, Indiana, Iowa, Montana, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas and Utah. Comprehensive privacy laws 
also have been proposed in other states and at the federal level, reflecting a trend toward more stringent privacy 
legislation in the U.S.; 
• the FTC often relies on Section 5 of the FTC Act to enforce inadequate privacy and data security practices. Section 5 
of the FTC Act provides the FTC with broad authority to protect consumers from unfair or deceptive acts or practices 
in or affecting commerce;
• outside the U.S., the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (the “GDPR”) and the U.K. data protection regime 
consisting primarily of the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation and the U.K. Data Protection Act 2018, which 
govern the processing of personal data in those jurisdictions, and could result in significant fines (up to the greater of 
€20 million / £17.5 million or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year), regulatory 
investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices or 
assessment notices (for a compulsory audit), civil claims including representative actions and other class action type 
litigation; 
• E.U. and U.K. rules with respect to cross-border transfers of personal data out of the European Economic Area (the 
“EEA”) and the U.K., respectively, which are in flux, including in light of a decision by the Court of Justice of the 
E.U. invalidating the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, and the European Commission’s publishing of revised 
standard contractual clauses (“SCCs”) in 2021, which we must consider and apply, where applicable. When relying on 
SCCs, the data exporters are also required to conduct a transfer risk assessment to verify if anything in the law and/or 
practices of the third country may impinge on the effectiveness of the SCCs in the context of the transfer at stake and, 
if so, to identify and adopt supplementary measures. Where no supplementary measure is suitable, the data exporter 
shall avoid, suspend or terminate the transfer. With regard to the transfer of data from the EEA to the U.S., on July 10, 
2023, the European Commission adopted its adequacy decision for the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Framework. On the 
basis of the new adequacy decision, personal data can flow from the EEA to U.S. companies participating in the 
framework. With regard to the transfer of data from the U.K. to the U.S., the U.K. government has recently adopted an 
adequacy decision for the U.S., the U.K.-U.S. Data Bridge, which came into effect on October 12, 2023. The U.K.-
U.S. Data Bridge recognizes the U.S. as offering an adequate level of data protection where the transfer is to a U.S. 
company participating in the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the U.K. Extension. In light of these changing 
requirements, we could suffer additional costs, complaints, regulatory investigations or fines, and if we are otherwise 
unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the 
20
manner in which we provide our services and the geographic location or segregation of our relevant systems and 
operations, which could adversely affect our financial results, including because we rely on third parties in other 
countries; 
• evolving privacy laws on cookies and e-marketing. In the E.U., regulators are increasingly focusing on compliance 
with requirements in the online behavioral advertising ecosystem, and current national laws that implement the 
ePrivacy Directive will be replaced by an E.U. regulation known as the ePrivacy Regulation. While the text of the 
ePrivacy Regulation is still under development, European court decisions and regulators’ recent guidance are driving 
increased attention to cookies and tracking technologies. In the U.S., the FTC and many state laws have increasingly 
focused on the collection and use of behavioral data, including geolocation and biometric information. As regulators 
start to enforce a stricter approach, this could lead to substantial costs, require significant systems changes, limit the 
effectiveness of our marketing activities, divert the attention of our technology personnel, adversely affect our 
margins, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities;
• China’s multiple pieces of legislation governing the healthcare industry involve prescribing complex regulatory 
requirements governing different types of data across a continuum of care, and various supervisory authorities 
frequently conduct inspections and investigations. These include:
◦ China’s Cybersecurity Law, including data localization requirements that require operators of critical information 
infrastructure (“CIIOs”) to store personal information and important data collected and generated from the critical 
information infrastructure within China. Failure to do so can result in fines of up to RMB 100,000 for the relevant 
entity as well as for the personnel directly responsible;
◦ China’s Data Security Law (“Data Security Law”), which became effective on September 1, 2021, and applies 
extraterritorially and to a broad range of activities that involve “data” (not only personal or sensitive data). Under 
the Data Security Law, entities and individuals carrying out data activities must abide by various data security 
obligations, including implementing the appropriate level of protective measures for each respective class of data 
and storing data locally in China (or in compliance with certain data transfer restrictions); 
◦ China’s Personal Information Protection Law (“PIPL”), which is similar to the GDPR and also applies 
extraterritorially. The PIPL provides the legality of personal information processing and the basic requirements of 
notice and consent, sets out data localization requirements for CIIOs and personal information processors who 
process personal information above a certain threshold prescribed by the relevant authorities, and provides a list of 
rules for transferring personal information outside of China. Failure to comply with PIPL can result in fines of up 
to RMB 50 million or 5% of the prior year’s total annual revenue for the personal information processor and/or a 
suspension of services or data processing activities, among other fines and criminal liabilities, including ones that 
can be placed on responsible personnel; and
◦ several regulations and draft regulations for public comments, promulgated by the People’s Republic of China, 
which are designed to provide further supplemental guidance in accordance with the laws mentioned above;
• Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (“PIPEDA”), which governs data protection 
in the private sector with specific requirements around health privacy and consumer protection. PIPEDA promotes 
transparency related to personal information collection, requires consent for use, encourages accountability for data 
handling and imposes obligations on organizations to protect personal data from unauthorized access, breaches and 
misuse;
• India’s Information Technology Act, 2000, which establishes a set of minimum security standards for protection of 
sensitive personal data, the Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information 
Rules and the newly enacted Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023. These directives require that personal data is 
processed and managed with the utmost care, respecting the rights and dignity of individuals, and promote data 
security measures to protect against data breaches, cyber-attacks and unauthorized access to personal information;
• self-regulatory standards that privacy advocacy groups, the technology industry and other industries have established 
or may establish and various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens 
on us. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by them 
or other third parties, and we may be required or otherwise find it advisable to obtain certain of these certifications or 
adhere to these standards. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce 
demand for our solutions and adversely affect our business; and 
• enacted or considered legislation similar to the above in other countries around the world, in which we do business. 
Environmental, Health and Safety Laws
We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S., such as those 
related to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. Like other companies in our industry, our manufacturing and 
research activities involve the purchase, storage, movement, use and disposal of substances regulated under environmental, 
health and safety laws, including those related to hazardous or potentially hazardous substances.
21
Laws Governing Reimbursement Activities
Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs and private payors, such as indemnity insurers, employer group health insurance programs and managed care plans, to 
reimburse all or part of the cost of the products. As a result, demand for our products is and will continue to be dependent in 
part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors. Reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other third-
party payors may be subject to periodic adjustments as a result of legislative, regulatory and policy changes as well as 
budgetary pressures in the U.S. and globally. For example, in the U.S.:
• the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability 
Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”) implemented payment system reforms including a national pilot 
program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, 
quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models;
• the Budget Control Act of 2011 reduced Medicare payments to providers by 2% per fiscal year, effective on April 1, 
2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2030, with the 
exception of a temporary suspension from May 1, 2020, through March 31, 2022, unless additional Congressional 
action is taken;
• the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”), enacted in 2015, repealed the formula by 
which Medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual 
updates and a new system of incentive payments that are based on various performance measures and physicians’ 
participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations; and
• certain provisions of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (“PAMA”) were implemented by CMS in 2018, 
which made substantial changes to the way in which clinical laboratory services are paid under Medicare. Under 
PAMA, the revised Medicare reimbursement rates were scheduled to apply to clinical diagnostic laboratory tests 
furnished on or after January 1, 2018. The revised reimbursement methodology is expected to generally result in 
relatively lower reimbursement under Medicare for clinical diagnostic lab tests than has been historically available. 
Other Laws and Regulations Governing Our Sales, Marketing and Shipping 
We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the “Bribery Act”), the 
Brazilian Anti-Bribery Act (also known as the Brazilian Clean Company Act) and various other similar anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit us and our intermediaries from, among other things, offering, promising or 
making payments to foreign government entities or officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also 
subject to pertinent U.S. and foreign laws relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies. We 
also must comply with various export control and trade embargo laws, which may require licenses or other authorizations for 
transactions within some countries or with some counterparties. Additionally, we are subject to laws and regulations and certain 
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) requirements applicable to our government contracts, and failure to address 
these laws and regulations, ESG requirements, or to comply with government contracts could result in fines, debarment or 
exclusion from federal healthcare or global tender programs, or harm our business by a reduction in revenue associated with 
these customers. We are also subject to audits for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to 
comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or 
debarment.
Intellectual Property
The healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret and 
trademark protection for commercially relevant technologies, devices, products, tradenames and processes. In the aggregate, our 
intellectual property is of material importance in the operation of our business. However, although we possess numerous 
patents, trade secrets and trademarks that are important to our business, we believe that no single patent, trade secret or 
trademark by itself is material to our business as a whole.
We actively pursue patents for technologies that are considered patentable. We have issued patents in the U.S. and 
internationally, and have patent applications pending throughout the world. However, important factors, many of which are not 
within our control, can affect whether and to what extent patent protection in the U.S. and in other important markets 
worldwide is obtained. For example, the speed, accuracy and consistency in application of the law in a patent office within any 
particular jurisdiction are beyond our control and can be unpredictable. The resolution of issues such as these and their effect on 
our long-term success are also indeterminable. 
22
It has been our policy to file for patent protection in the U.S. and other countries with significant markets for our products, such 
as Western European countries and Japan, if the economics are deemed to justify such filing and our patent counsel advises that 
relevant patent protection may be obtained.
We are aware of certain patents issued to various developers of diagnostic products with potential applicability to our diagnostic 
technologies. We have entered into agreements with third parties to license and use their intellectual property, when applicable 
to our products and services, although no one such license is material to our business as a whole. In the future, we expect that 
we will require or desire additional licenses from other parties in order to refine our products further and to allow us to develop, 
manufacture and market commercially viable or superior products effectively.
In addition to existing patents, a large number of individuals and commercial enterprises seek patent protection for 
technologies, products and processes in fields in, or related to, our areas of product development. To the extent such efforts are 
successful, we may be required to obtain licenses and pay royalties or other compensation (some of which may be significant) 
in order to pursue certain of our future product strategies. Moreover, licenses to such patents may not be available to us at all or 
may not be available on acceptable terms.
In addition to seeking patent protection where appropriate, we also protect some of our intellectual property as trade secrets. We 
seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technologies in many ways, including by entering into confidentiality 
agreements with employees and third parties with which we do business (such as potential licensees, customers, vendors, 
strategic partners and consultants). In addition, we have implemented certain security measures in our laboratories and offices 
to protect the confidential and proprietary nature of these technologies.
In addition to patent and trade secret protection, we have also registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service 
marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries that are used in our business and in conjunction with the sale of our products. Our 
principal trademarks and the products they cover are discussed above in the section entitled “Business Units and Products.”
Under many of our contractual agreements that involve the sale of our products, we have agreed to indemnify the counterparty 
against costs and liabilities arising out of any patent infringement claims and other intellectual property claims asserted by a 
third party attributable to our products sold under those agreements.
Human Capital and ESG Strategies
Human Capital Resources 
As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 7,100 employees worldwide, with approximately 4,200 employees in the U.S. 
and approximately 2,900 employees outside of the U.S. We employ approximately 1,800 manufacturing employees and 
approximately 2,900 employees in commercial sales, service and regional marketing positions worldwide, including 
approximately 1,000 service teammates. Approximately 15% of our associates globally are covered by a union, collective 
bargaining agreement or works council, including associates in Austria, Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, 
Sweden and the U.K. To date, we have experienced no work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are good.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Our employees are one of our most important assets and set the foundation for our ability to achieve our strategic objectives, 
drive operational execution, deliver strong financial performance, advance innovation, and maintain our quality and compliance 
programs. The success and growth of our business depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate a 
diverse population of talented and high-performing employees at all levels of our organization. We strive to provide a positive 
work environment for all employees, consultants, contingent workers, vendors, and customers. One of the ways we accomplish 
this is by embracing a variety of diverse experiences and perspectives and being inclusive team players. We are dedicated to 
fostering a culture that supports diverse talents, experiences and perspectives and an environment of mutual respect, equity and 
collaboration that helps drive our business. As a global organization, our unique perspectives, diverse backgrounds and 
collective strengths drive creative solutions, breakthrough innovation and highly productive teams.
In September 2022, we invited all employees to participate in a confidential, global survey to gather feedback and gain insights 
on key cultural and engagement factors and approximately 75% of our global employees participated in the survey. In June 
2023, approximately 85% of our global employees participated in a subsequent, follow-up pulse survey. Respondents of both 
the 2022 and 2023 surveys indicated a strong alignment to our strategic priorities and find meaning and purpose in their work. 
We believe we are stronger together and intend to prioritize actions that support happy, inspired and engaged team members. 
We plan to conduct periodic pulse surveys with employees throughout 2024 to measure progress and focus on further 
improvements.
We are committed to maintaining an environment of equal employment opportunities for all job applicants and members of our 
team. We fulfill this commitment through a variety of measures, including internal and external posting of job openings, hiring, 
23
training and promoting employees without regard to race, color, religion, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, national 
origin, ancestry, citizenship, military or veteran status, disability, medical condition, marital or domestic partner status, sexual 
orientation, age or any other considerations made unlawful by federal, state or local law. We prohibit discrimination based on a 
perception that anyone has any of these characteristics or is associated with a person who has or is perceived as having any of 
these characteristics. In keeping with our core values, we are steadfast in taking action to provide equal employment 
opportunity in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws.
In addition, we review Company programs, policies, procedures and activities with diversity and inclusion in mind. We have 
established defined core behaviors based on the QuidelOrtho Way, which define our core values as a company and our ways of 
working together. These core behaviors include “bring your best,” which reflects each individual contributing to their highest 
potential, “embrace inclusion,” which reinforces the role each team member plays in creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
work environment, and “commit to service,” which reflects our value of serving our customers and communities in the core of 
everything we do. We plan to expand upon the foundation of diversity and inclusion by incorporating other inclusive behaviors 
into these core behaviors and providing training to support all of our employees in being authentic in their self-expression and 
open to the self-expression of others. 
As of December 31, 2023, 42% of our U.S. employees identified as female and 37% of our U.S. employees identified as having 
a racial and ethnic background other than white. As of December 31, 2023, our executive management team consisted of 8 
members, of whom 25% identified as female. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, our board of directors (the “Board”) 
consisted of 11 members, of whom 27% self-identified as female and 18% self-identified as having a racial and ethnic 
background other than white.
Employee Benefits 
To succeed in a competitive labor market, we have recruitment and retention strategies that we focus on as part of the overall 
management of our business, including designing our compensation and benefits programs to be competitive and to align with 
our strategic and stockholders’ interests. Accordingly, we use a mix of competitive base salary, cash-based annual incentive 
compensation, equity compensation awards and other employee benefits, when applicable. Some of our key employee benefits 
include eligibility for health insurance, vacation time, a retirement plan with an employer match, an employee assistance 
program and life and disability coverage. We also offer a variety of voluntary benefits that allow employees to select the 
options that meet their needs, which vary by country, and may include flexible spending accounts, hospital care, accident 
insurance, prepaid legal benefits, family forming benefits, tuition reimbursement and a wellness program. These benefits are 
designed to offer employees a menu of options so that each employee can select benefits most meaningful to their personal 
situation. We consider our employee benefits to be an important component of total rewards and compensation for our 
employees.
Health, Safety and Environmental
Our operations and facilities are subject to various laws and regulations domestically and around the world governing the 
protection of the environment and health and safety, including the discharge and emissions of pollutants to air and water and the 
handling, management and disposal of hazardous substances. We are committed to employee health and safety in the 
workplace. In the U.S., our manufacturing facilities hold various certifications depending on the site. We also maintain health 
and safety programs conforming to best practices in the diagnostics industry. We are focused on minimizing risk and protecting 
our employees and communities by employing safe technologies and operating procedures, and in turn minimizing recordable 
incidents and improving safety across our organization.
We believe that all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are operated in compliance with existing environmental 
requirements in all material respects, including the operating permits required thereunder. Although we do not currently expect 
the costs of compliance with existing environmental requirements to have a material impact on our financial position, we may 
incur additional costs or obligations to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements as a result of changes in 
law or customer demands, including those related to our products. In addition, many of our manufacturing sites have a long 
history of industrial operations, and remediation is or may be required at a number of these locations. Although we do not 
currently expect outstanding remediation obligations to have a material impact on our financial position, the ultimate cost of 
remediation is subject to a number of variables and is difficult to accurately predict.
Corporate Philanthropy 
We listen to our internal and external stakeholders and aim to translate their needs into innovative solutions, in the products we 
offer and in our corporate philanthropy work. Our charitable giving programs operate under the Gift. Impact. Volunteer. 
Empower. (G.I.V.E.) program. Our charitable giving programs and activities in the U.S. consist of the following:
24
• Matching gifts−We match charitable contributions made by active employees to qualifying non-profit organizations of 
up to $200 per employee annually.
• Volunteer incentive program−When an employee volunteers at a qualifying organization for a minimum of 20 hours in 
a calendar year, we donate $100 to that organization.
• General grant fund−We may donate up to $2,000 to a qualifying organization proposed by an employee.
• Community partnerships−As part of our commitment to expanding equitable access to healthcare, we have partnered 
with several major organizations to donate COVID-19 testing products to various communities across the nation to 
promote increased testing within communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19.
• Community initiatives and philanthropic programs−We contribute to a variety of community initiatives and 
philanthropic programs, including research partnerships, blood drive sponsorships, COVID-19 testing drives, medical 
supply donations, scholarship and internship programs, as well as STEM programs with educational institutions. 
ESG Strategy
We are driven by a purpose to improve the quality of life for people all over the world by enabling more informed health 
decisions when and where they need them most. We champion an authentic culture of service, empowering every employee to 
do their best. We strive to create innovative products that are efficient, trusted, accessible and sustainable to support better 
outcomes for patients and practitioners.
Our goal is to align our corporate actions in the areas of environmental sustainability, social responsibility, ethics, diversity and 
inclusion, corporate governance and supply chain ecosystem responsibility to have a positive impact on our communities and 
for all our stakeholders in ways that provide value to our stockholders.
Information Available on Our Website
This Annual Report and each of our other periodic and current reports, including any amendments thereto, are available, free of 
charge, on our website, www.quidelortho.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with 
or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). From time to time, we may use our website as a channel 
of distribution of material information related to the Company. Financial and other material information regarding the Company 
is routinely posted on and accessible at https://ir.quidelortho.com/. The information contained on or connected to our website is 
not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or filed with or furnished to the SEC and should not be 
considered part of this Annual Report.
25
Item 1A. Risk Factors
In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be 
considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and 
uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also 
impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, 
financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.
Risk Factors Summary
The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial 
condition:
• the highly competitive nature of our industry and market segment;
• failure to research and successfully develop new technologies, products and services and develop new markets;
• adverse developments in global market, macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions;
• fluctuations or a decline in sales of our respiratory products;
• the loss of any key distributor or the failure to retain or expand our customer relationships;
• interruptions and delays in the supply of raw materials, components, equipment and other products and services 
provided to us, and manufacturing or warehousing problems or delays;
• the failure of our collaboration partners to fulfill their obligations to us;
• decreases in the number of surgical procedures performed, and the resulting decrease in blood demand;
• fluctuations in our cash flows as a result of our reagent rental model;
• our inability to achieve market acceptance of our products;
• significant changes in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve, in an effort to reduce costs;
• consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations;
• inability to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, divestitures or discontinuances of certain business 
operations;
• risks associated with our non-U.S. operations and international sales, including currency translation risks, the impact of 
possible new tariffs, trade embargoes or trade wars and compliance with applicable trade measures;
• failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Quidel and Ortho in the expected timeframe;
• continued incurrence of significant transaction and merger-related costs;
• our inability to protect our information systems and personal and confidential information from data corruption, cyber-
attacks and security breaches;
• interruptions to our third-party IT service providers and/or the inability of our digital solutions to interoperate with 
certain operating systems;
• our inability to develop, obtain and protect our proprietary technology rights or defend against intellectual property 
infringement suits against us by third parties; 
• the loss of EUAs on our respiratory products;
• our inability to obtain or maintain required clearances or approvals for our products, including approval requirements 
of the foreign countries in which we sell our products;
• our ability to adequately manage our clinical studies;
• failure to comply with applicable regulations, which may result in significant costs or the suspension or withdrawal of 
previously obtained clearances or approvals;
• disruptions at government agencies that prevent them from performing normal business functions or prevent new or 
modified products from being developed, cleared, approved or commercialized in a timely manner, or at all;
• inability to procure government contracts, including due to government-sponsored tendering requirements, lack of 
funding and compliance and possible sanctions risks associated with our contracts with government entities;
• liability claims and harm to our reputation resulting from claims that our products are defective;
• failure to comply with laws and regulations, including healthcare regulations, laws and regulations associated with our 
use of hazardous materials, anti-corruption laws and regulations, and federal, state and foreign privacy, data security 
and data protection laws and regulations;
• risks related to changes in U.S. and foreign income tax laws and regulations; 
26
• need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs or other business purposes;
• risks related to our indebtedness;
• our ability to generate cash flow to service our debt obligations; 
• restrictions imposed under the agreements governing our indebtedness from time to time, which may limit our 
operating flexibility;
• difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees;
• unexpected payments to any defined benefit plans or other post-employment benefit plans applicable to our 
employees;
• work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force;
• the outcomes of legal proceedings instituted against us;
• additional costs and new risks associated with ESG matters, including evolving legal standards and regulations 
concerning such matters;
• risks that the insurance we maintain may not fully cover any or all potential exposures;
• certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (our “Charter”), our amended and restated 
bylaws (our “Bylaws”) and Delaware law that may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of 
our common stock, or limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes;
• the volatility of the market price of our common stock;
• risks associated with future sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the public market; and
• failure to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls.
The following is a more complete discussion of the risks facing our business that we have determined are currently material.
Risks Relating to Our Business, Strategy and Operations
The industry and market segment in which we operate are highly competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could 
adversely affect our sales and results of operations.
Our diagnostic tests and services compete with similar products made by our competitors. We may not be able to supply 
customers with products and services that they deem superior or at competitive prices, and we may lose business to our 
competitors. There are a large number of multinational and regional competitors making investments in competing 
technologies, products and services, including several large pharmaceutical and diagnostics companies and diagnostic divisions 
of diversified healthcare companies and conglomerates. We also face competition from our distributors and retail customers as 
some have created, and others may decide to create, their own products and services to compete with ours. A number of our 
competitors have competitive advantages, such as substantially greater financial, managerial, technical, R&D, clinical, 
manufacturing, and regulatory resources, capabilities and experience, and more established, larger and broader coverage in 
marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations and other resources than we have. Moreover, some competitors offer 
broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have. Our operating results could be materially and adversely 
affected if:
• customers and potential customers believe our competitors’ products and services better address their needs and 
expectations through product performance, product offerings, cost, automation or work-flow efficiencies, and even if 
we can demonstrate that our products and services meet their needs and expectations, they may resist changing to our 
products; 
• our competitors take market share from our products, or we may not win opportunities because our competitors have 
or are perceived to have more effective servicing or marketing or greater or more timely product availability;
• our competitors are able to obtain regulatory approvals for products or services or otherwise bring competing products 
to market earlier than us; or
• our competitors offer more competitive pricing or we fail to manufacture, in a cost-effective way, or at all, sufficient 
quantities of our products to meet customer demand.
Competitive and regulatory conditions in many markets in which we operate restrict our ability to fully recover through price 
increases, higher costs of acquired goods and services resulting from inflation, and other drivers of cost increases. In addition, 
there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets over the last few years. We may not be able to compete 
successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as 
companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. If we are unable to compete successfully 
in this highly competitive industry, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
27
In order to remain competitive and profitable, we must expend considerable resources to research and successfully develop 
new technologies, products and services and develop new markets, and there is no assurance our research efforts and our 
efforts to develop new technologies, products and services or markets will be successful or such technologies, products and 
services or markets will be commercially viable or accepted.
Our ability to retain customers, attract new customers, grow our business and enhance our brand depends on our success in 
developing and delivering products and services that meet our customers’ needs and expectations. We devote a significant 
amount of financial and other resources to researching and developing new technologies, products, services and markets. The 
development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products and services and new technologies require a significant investment of 
resources, such as employee time, offices and R&D and manufacturing facilities, and development of new partners and 
channels. Furthermore, developing and manufacturing new products and services require us to anticipate customers’ and 
patients’ needs and emerging technology trends accurately. We may experience R&D, manufacturing, regulatory, marketing 
and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our introduction of new or enhanced products and services. The R&D process 
in the healthcare industry generally takes a significant amount of time from design stage to product launch. This process is 
conducted in various stages, and each stage presents the risk that we will not achieve our goals. In addition, innovations may 
not be accepted quickly in the marketplace, or at all, because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or 
uncertainty over third-party reimbursements. In the event of such failure, we may need to abandon a product or service in which 
we have invested substantial resources.
We cannot be certain that:
• any of our products or services under development will be successfully developed, or if developed, will be timely 
introduced to the market;
• any of our products or services under development will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials;
• we will be able to obtain, in a timely manner or at all, necessary regulatory approvals;
• the products and services we develop can be manufactured or provided at acceptable cost and with appropriate quality; 
or
• these products and services, if and when approved, can be successfully marketed or will be adopted in the market. 
If we are unable to deliver reliable products in a timely manner, promptly respond to and address quality issues, provide 
expected levels of customer service, and comply with applicable regulations and rules, our ability to deliver products that meet 
our customers’ needs and expectations and our competitive position, branding and results of operations may be adversely and 
materially affected.
Global market, macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions may adversely affect our operations and performance.
The growth of our business and demand for our products and services are affected by changes in the health of the overall global 
economy and, in particular, of the healthcare industry. Demand for our products and services could change more dramatically 
than in previous years based on funding and reimbursement constraints and support levels from governments, universities, 
hospitals and the private industry, including laboratories. Our global business is adversely affected by decreases in the general 
level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, increases in unemployment rates, the 
inflationary environment, rising interest rates, a recessionary environment, instability in financial institutions and budgeting 
constraints of governmental entities. Disruptions in the U.S., Europe, China or in other geographies, including as a result of the 
ongoing conflict in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas conflict, or weakening of emerging markets, such as China, could adversely 
affect our sales, profitability and/or liquidity.
A deterioration in financial markets, including due to instability in financial institutions, or reduction in confidence in major 
economies or other macroeconomic developments could affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. A tightening of 
credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant 
purchases and operations, could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services and could impact 
the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, a tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base, increase 
the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy, and could also impact our 
operations more directly, including any outstanding or contemplated credit facility or other borrowings. Our financial position, 
results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by difficult conditions and volatility in the capital, 
credit and commodities markets. 
Fluctuations or a decline in sales of our respiratory products could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 
A significant percentage of our total revenues is generated from a limited number of our product families. In particular, 
revenues from the sales of our respiratory products have represented a significant portion of our total revenues. Sales of our 
respiratory products accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. Demand for 
28
our respiratory products has and may continue to fluctuate or decline as a result of a number of factors, including but not 
limited to the severity of the respiratory season, the emergence and impact of new variants or resurgences, the effectiveness of 
vaccination efforts, and the increased market supply of respiratory products by our competitors. The gross margins derived 
from sales of our respiratory products are generally significantly higher than the gross margins from many of our other core 
products. As a result, if sales or revenues of our respiratory products fluctuate or decline for any reason, whether as a result of 
COVID-19 reaching an endemic stage, a mild respiratory season, market share loss or price pressure, obsolescence, regulatory 
matters, or any other reason, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected on a disproportionate basis. 
A significant portion of our total revenues are from a relatively small number of customers, and if we fail to retain or 
expand our customer relationships or significant customers terminate or do not renew their contracts, our business, 
operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.
A significant portion of our revenues are from sales of products and services to distributors. Although we have many distributor 
relationships in the U.S. and globally, the market is dominated by a small number of these distributors and as a result, we rely 
on certain key distributors for the sales of some of our products. The loss or termination of our relationship with any of these 
key distributors could significantly disrupt our business unless suitable alternatives are timely found or lost sales to a distributor 
are taken up by another distributor or in direct sales. Finding a suitable alternative to a lost or terminated distributor may pose 
challenges in our industry’s competitive environment, and another suitable distributor may not be found on satisfactory terms, if 
at all. For instance, some distributors already have exclusive arrangements with our competitors, and others do not have the 
same level of penetration into our target markets as our existing distributors. In addition, our efforts to distribute our products 
directly in some markets may be unsuccessful. The loss of any key distributor or an unsuccessful effort by us to directly 
distribute our products could lead to reduced sales.
In addition to distributors, we also have a number of direct customers who are significant. If our relationships with these 
customers are terminated, or such customers do not renew their contracts with us, or substantially reduce or stop ordering from 
us, and if we do not add new large customers over time, our business could be harmed. Our ability to continue to generate 
revenue from our significant customers will depend on our ability to maintain strong relationships with these customers and 
introduce competitive new products and services at competitive prices. Moreover, customer consolidation could reduce the 
number of customers and may increase the risk of our dependence on a small number of customers.
If total revenues from some of our significant customers were to decrease or not continue in any material amount in the future, 
or if we are not successful in growing our current or new customer relationships or timely transitioning our business from a lost 
or terminated distributor to one or more new distributors or to direct sales, our business, operating results and financial 
condition could be materially and adversely affected.
Interruptions and delays in the supply of raw materials, components, equipment and other products and services could 
adversely affect our operations and financial results.
We depend on third-party manufacturers, suppliers and vendors for some of our materials, components, equipment, packaging 
and other products and services. Any change in our relationship with our contract manufacturers, suppliers of raw materials and 
other third-party vendors or changes to terms of our arrangements with any of them could adversely affect our financial 
condition and results of operations. In addition, we have experienced shortages and delays in receiving certain raw materials 
and other components for our products and have experienced logistics and distribution challenges, as well as challenges in labor 
availability and rising labor costs. We cannot predict the frequency, duration or scope of these supply, production, logistics, 
distribution and labor disruptions and challenges.
Unexpected increases in demand for our products or services or supply shortages could require us to incur additional costs to 
meet customer demand. These costs could involve purchasing or producing a safety stock of components or products, 
purchasing new machinery, obtaining additional labor resources or even acquiring or constructing new manufacturing facilities. 
Some supplies require significant ordering lead time and we may not be able to timely access sufficient supplies in the event of 
an unexpected increase in demand or supply shortage, or the cost of such supplies may be significantly greater. This would 
increase our capital and other costs, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash resources. Additionally, our reliance on 
a small number of contract manufacturers and a large number of single and sole source suppliers makes us vulnerable to 
possible production capacity or other constraints of such suppliers or in their supply chain and reduced control over 
manufacturing, product availability, delivery schedules and costs.
While we proactively work with our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, industry partners and government agencies to 
address these challenges in our efforts to meet the needs of our customers, such disruptions and challenges have materially 
affected and could further materially affect our ability to timely manufacture and distribute our products and have unfavorably 
impacted and could further unfavorably impact our results of operations. As a result, we have encountered, and may in the 
future encounter, significant customer backlogs of orders and inventory shipments. Further significant customer backlogs and 
29
our inability to meet customer demand for our products and services may adversely impact customer relationships, impair our 
reputation and affect our financial performance.
Our business is also subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation, regulations and trade agreements relating to 
the materials we import, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could 
adversely affect our operations and our ability to import materials used in our products at current or increased levels, if at all. 
Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or 
cash flows. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us or increase our costs, either 
of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional 
or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. For example, stringent requirements of the FDA and other 
regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of certain of our products may prevent us from quickly establishing additional 
or replacement sources for the raw materials, products, components or manufacturing services that we use, or from doing so 
without excessive cost. Further, our suppliers may be subject to regulation or other actions by the FDA and other regulatory 
authorities that could hinder their ability to produce necessary raw materials, products and components. The implementation of 
these requirements has caused and will continue to cause increased costs to comply with these requirements and may inhibit our 
ability to source these materials. 
If our current contract manufacturers, suppliers of raw materials and other third-party vendors are unable or unwilling to 
manufacture or supply our products or components or requirements for raw materials in required volumes and at required 
quality levels or renew or continue existing terms under supply arrangements, we may be required to replace such 
manufacturers, suppliers and vendors and may be unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Any shortage in 
our supply of raw materials, equipment or components, or our inability to quickly and cost-effectively obtain alternative sources 
for this supply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
We may experience manufacturing or warehousing problems or delays due to, among other reasons, our volume, specialized 
processes, natural disasters, public health crises and macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions.
The global supply of some of our products depends on the uninterrupted efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities, and 
the continued performance of our contract manufacturers, suppliers of raw materials and other third-party vendors under our 
supply arrangements. Many of our manufacturing processes are complex and involve sensitive scientific processes involving 
the use of unique and often proprietary antibodies and other raw materials that cannot be replicated or acquired through 
alternative sources without undue delay or expense. Other processes present difficult technical challenges to obtain the 
manufacturing yields necessary to operate profitably. In addition, our manufacturing processes may require complex and 
specialized equipment, which can be expensive to maintain, repair or replace with required lead times of up to a year.
The manufacturing of certain of our products is concentrated in one or more of our manufacturing plants or those of our 
contract manufacturers, with no or limited alternate facilities. We have significant operations in California, near major 
earthquake faults and areas vulnerable to wildfire, which make us susceptible to earthquake and fire risk. We also have 
significant operations in Rochester, New York, Raritan, New Jersey, Pencoed, Wales, Pompano Beach, Florida, and Athens, 
Ohio. Severe weather, natural disasters, public health crises, fires, power shortages or outages, terrorism, political change or 
unrest, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors, damage to 
our equipment or one or more of our facilities, catastrophic events or other events outside of our control, or any other event that 
negatively impacts our manufacturing process, facilities, systems or equipment, or the process, facilities, systems or equipment 
of our contract manufacturers, suppliers or other third-party vendors on which we depend, could delay, reduce, suspend or 
terminate production of products or the release of new products, result in the delivery of inferior products or otherwise disrupt 
our operations. In such circumstances, our revenue would decline and we could incur losses until such time as we or our 
contract manufacturers are able to restore or rebuild our or their production processes or we are able to put in place alternative 
contract manufacturers, suppliers or third-party vendors. Similarly, any disruption or other operational challenges to one of our 
primary warehouse facilities could result in decreased revenue or increased costs given the challenge in finding suitable 
alternative facilities. 
Our collaboration arrangements may not operate according to our business strategy if our collaboration arrangement 
partners fail to fulfill their obligations.
As part of our business, we are party to collaboration arrangements with other companies, including the Joint Business with 
Grifols, and we may enter into additional collaboration arrangements in the future. The nature of a collaboration arrangement 
requires us to share control over significant decisions with unaffiliated third parties. Since we may not exercise exclusive 
control over our current or future collaboration arrangements, we may not be able to require our collaboration arrangement 
partners to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. Disputes between us and our 
collaboration arrangement partners could also result in litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Additionally, 
30
differences in views among collaboration arrangement partners may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major 
issues. If these differences cause our collaboration arrangements to deviate from our business strategy, our results of operations 
could be materially adversely affected. 
A decrease in the number of surgical procedures performed, and the resulting decrease in blood demand, could negatively 
impact our financial results.
Our immunohematology and donor screening products are frequently used in connection with the testing of blood prior to 
transfusion, which is typically associated with surgical procedures. A decrease in the number of surgeries being performed in 
the markets in which we operate can result in decreased demand for blood for transfusions, resulting in lower testing volumes 
and, therefore, decreased sales of our products. In addition, blood is a large expense for hospitals and pressure on hospital 
budgets due to macroeconomic factors and healthcare reform could force changes in the ways in which blood is used and lower 
blood demand. Fewer surgeries and lower blood demand could negatively impact our revenue, profitability and cash flows.
Our reagent rental model reduces our cash flows during the initial part of the applicable contract, which causes our cash 
flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter.
Leases, rather than sales, of instruments under our reagent rental model have the effect of reducing cash flows during the initial 
part of the applicable contract as we support those commercial transactions until we are able to recover our investment over the 
life of the contract. The use of cash in connection with this model causes our cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and 
may have a negative effect on our financial condition.
We may not achieve market acceptance of our products by customers and this would have a negative effect on future sales.
We maintain customer relationships with numerous physician offices, hospitals, clinical laboratories, reference laboratories, 
urgent care clinics, leading universities, retail clinics, pharmacies, wellness screening centers, other POC settings, blood banks 
and donor centers, individual, non-professional OTC customers and other customers. We believe that sales of our products 
depend significantly on our customers’ confidence in, and recommendations of, our products. In addition, in a number of cases, 
our success depends on technicians’ acceptance and confidence in the effectiveness and ease-of-use of our products and 
services, including our new products. If we do not capture sales at the levels anticipated, our total revenues will not be at the 
levels that we expect and the costs we incur or have incurred may be disproportionate to our sales levels.
In order to achieve acceptance by healthcare professionals, we seek to educate the healthcare community as to the distinctive 
characteristics, perceived benefits, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products and services compared to alternative 
products. Acceptance of our products also requires effective training of healthcare professionals in the proper use and 
application of our products. Failure to effectively educate and train our technician end-users, continue to develop relationships 
with leading healthcare professionals or achieve market acceptance from healthcare providers or other customers with respect to 
the use of our diagnostic products could result in lower acceptance or fewer recommendations of our products, which may 
adversely affect our sales and profitability.
The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, 
significant changes in an effort to reduce costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 
operations.
The healthcare industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant 
changes in an effort to reduce costs. Many of our customers, and the end-customers to whom our customers provide products, 
rely on private or government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities. In the 
U.S., healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party 
payors, principally private health insurance plans and federal Medicare and Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the 
procedure, and these payors may reduce or modify reimbursement rates. For example, CMS implemented certain provisions of 
PAMA, which made substantial changes to the way in which clinical laboratory services are paid under Medicare. The revised 
reimbursement methodology under PAMA results in relatively lower reimbursement under Medicare for clinical diagnostic lab 
tests than has been historically available. Such changes in the U.S., healthcare austerity measures in Europe and other potential 
global healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures may reduce the amount of government funding or 
reimbursement available to customers or end-customers of our products and services and/or the volume of medical procedures 
using our products and services. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the U.S. or 
foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, legislative amendments, 
regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may reduce the demand for our products or adversely impact our 
ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. 
31
Governmental and private healthcare providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the 
delivery of healthcare services, forming group purchasing organizations to improve their purchasing leverage and using 
competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services.
Health insurance premiums, co-payments and deductibles have also generally increased in recent years. These increases may 
cause individuals to forgo health insurance, as well as medical attention. This behavior may reduce the demand for certain of 
our diagnostics products and services.
Such changes may cause participants in the healthcare industry to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the 
prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our 
products or services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our 
products and services and increase our compliance and other costs. Moreover, we believe the overall escalating cost of medical 
products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and 
domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. 
Any of the factors described above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Consolidation of our customer base, the formation of group purchasing organizations and government-sponsored tendering 
processes could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.
Consolidation among healthcare providers and the formation of buying groups and, with respect to our international operations, 
government-sponsored tendering processes, have put pressure on pricing and sales of our products, and in some instances, 
required payment of fees to group purchasing organizations or required us to provide lower pricing in the tendering process. 
Our success in these areas depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with integrated health networks and group 
purchasing organizations. If we are unable to enter into contracts with these group purchasing organizations and integrated 
health networks on terms acceptable to us or if we fail to have our pricing terms accepted in the tendering process, our sales and 
results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to enter into these contracts or have our pricing terms 
accepted in the tendering process, they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability. For example, 
the Chinese government has started to expand its volume-based procurement (“VBP”) program to diagnostics at the provincial 
level, which aims to lower prices in exchange for high volume purchases. Some of our immunoassay products fall within the 
VBP scope in Anhui Province in China. Furthermore, given the average industry contract length for our Ortho instruments is 
five to seven years, if we are unable to enter into a contract with a new customer or renew a given contract with an existing 
customer, it may be several years before we have an opportunity to acquire or reacquire, as applicable, such customer’s 
business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the interim period. 
We may engage in acquisitions or divestitures or discontinue business operations, and may encounter difficulties integrating 
acquired businesses with, or disposing of divested or discontinued businesses from, our current operations; therefore, we 
may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, divestitures or discontinuances.
We may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions. Our due diligence reviews of our acquisition targets may not identify all of 
the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost or potential loss contingencies with respect to a particular 
transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target’s previous activities as well 
as potential vulnerability to cybersecurity risks. We may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset 
impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. We also may 
encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these 
acquisitions, retaining key technical and management personnel, complying with regulatory requirements, or managing 
strategic investments. Additionally, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction in the 
amount or timeframe anticipated, if at all. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 
addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition 
costs as incurred, may cause us to experience greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which 
we acquire new businesses.
We may also make strategic divestitures or discontinue certain business operations from time to time if certain of our businesses 
do not meet our strategic, growth or profitability objectives. For example, in February 2024, we initiated a wind-down plan to 
transition out of the U.S donor screening portfolio, which has a lower growth and margin profile than other parts of our 
Transfusion Medicine business. Divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as 
through guarantees, indemnity obligations or other financial arrangements, following those transactions. Under these 
arrangements, nonperformance by those divested businesses could result in financial obligations imposed upon us and could 
affect our future financial results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such divestiture on terms 
favorable to us. The divestiture or discontinuance of certain businesses could result, individually or in the aggregate, in the 
recognition of material losses and a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
32
Risks Relating to Our International Operations
As a global business, we face risks relating to our non-U.S. operations and international sales, including inherent 
macroeconomic, geopolitical and regulatory risks, that could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our 
current business operations and impede our growth strategy.
We conduct our business on a global basis, as our products are sold internationally, with the majority of our international sales 
to our customers in our EMEA and China regions. Our international operations are subject to inherent macroeconomic, 
geopolitical and regulatory risks, which could adversely impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our business 
operations, impede our international growth and subject us to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures and legal 
expenses. These foreign risks include, among others:
• compliance with multiple different registration requirements and new and changing product registration requirements, 
our inability to benefit from registration for our products inasmuch as registrations may be controlled by a distributor, 
and the difficulty in transitioning our product registrations;
• compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including 
U.S. laws on import/export limitations, the FCPA, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental 
officials;
• lost revenue as a result of macroeconomic developments, including the inflationary environment and recessionary 
fears;
• the imposition by foreign governments of trade barriers such as tariffs, quotas, preferential bidding, import restrictions 
or other barriers;
• exposure to currency exchange fluctuations against the U.S. dollar;
• decreased liquidity resulting from longer payment cycles, generally lower average selling prices and greater difficulty 
in accounts receivable collection and enforcing agreements through foreign legal systems;
• lower productivity resulting from difficulties we may encounter in staffing and managing sales, customer support and 
R&D operations across many countries;
• difficulties associated with navigating foreign laws and legal systems;
• difficulties in identifying potential third-party distributors or distribution channels;
• import or export licensing requirements, both by the U.S. and foreign countries;
• international sanction regimes, including future regulations and sanctions that could further limit the countries in 
which our products may be manufactured or sold, increase the cost of conducting business in these countries, or 
restrict our access to, or increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources;
• reduced or lack of protection for and enforcement of our intellectual property rights;
• social, geopolitical or macroeconomic instability in some of the regions where we currently sell our products or 
operate or where we may expand into in the future, including as a result of conflicts, including the ongoing conflict in 
Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas conflict, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, wars, pandemics, endemics or other public health 
crises, environmental incidents and disruptions in global transportation;
• increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;
• import and export duties, changes to import and export regulations, customs regulations and processes, and restrictions 
on the transfer of funds, including currency controls;
• complex and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from international tax laws; 
• transportation difficulties and delays resulting from inadequate local infrastructure; and
• diversion of our products into the U.S. or other markets that are sold into other international markets at lower prices.
The occurrence of any of these or other factors over which we do not have control could lead to reduced revenue and 
profitability.
Currency translation risk and currency transaction risk may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations 
and cash flows.
We transact business in numerous countries around the world and expect that a significant portion of our business will continue 
to take place in international markets. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate earnings 
as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period, as 
applicable. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we 
operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. 
Furthermore, many of our local businesses generate revenues and incur costs in a currency other than their functional currency, 
33
which can impact the operating results for these operations if we are unable to mitigate the impact of foreign currency 
fluctuations. Accurately predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results is difficult because 
of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange 
rates. Accordingly, our profitability could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Given the volatility of exchange 
rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks, and any volatility in currency 
exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have entered 
into hedging agreements to address certain of our currency risks and intend to utilize local currency funding of expansions 
when appropriate.
Risks Relating to the Consummation of the Combinations and our Transformation Efforts
The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Quidel and Ortho would adversely affect our future business and 
financial performance.
As a result of the Combinations, we have been and continue to devote significant management and employee attention and 
resources to integrate the business practices and operations of Quidel and Ortho. The integration process may disrupt our 
business and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits we expect to result from the 
Combinations. Any failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of Quidel and Ortho or 
otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the Combinations could also seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, 
the integration of Quidel and Ortho may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses and liabilities. The difficulties of 
combining the operations of Quidel and Ortho, some of which we have already experienced, include, among others:
• managing a significantly larger company and expanded business operations and the associated increased costs and 
complexity;
• aligning and executing our strategy;
• inconsistencies in standards, controls, systems, procedures and policies;
• the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process and results;
• coordinating sales, distribution and marketing efforts;
• integrating IT, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management and other systems, including 
the implementation of a new ERP system to integrate certain existing business, operational and financial processes, 
which requires significant investment of capital and human resources and the reengineering of many business 
processes;
• managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of Quidel and Ortho; and
• taking actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals.
Many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could subject us to increased costs, decreased revenues 
and diversion of management’s and employees’ time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. In addition, we are transitioning from integration efforts of the two independent businesses 
to focusing on transformation of the combined company with the goal of creating a more efficient and agile company. We may 
not realize the full benefits of the Combinations, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we 
expect from the Combinations and transformation, or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. If we are unable 
to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the Combinations and transformation within the anticipated 
timeframe, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.
We will continue to incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the Combinations.
We have incurred and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the 
Combinations. There are processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that still must be integrated in 
connection with the Combinations and the integration of Quidel’s and Ortho’s businesses. While we have assumed that a 
certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the Combinations and continue to assess the magnitude of these 
costs, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and 
implementation expenses. Although we expect that the strategic benefits of the Combinations will offset the transaction 
expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.
34
Risks Relating to Our IT Systems
Our ability to protect our information systems and personal and confidential information from data corruption, cyber-
attacks and security breaches is critical to the success of our business.
We are highly dependent on IT networks and systems, including our office networks, operational environment, special purpose 
networks, systems and software used to provide our products and services, including operating our instruments and devices, and 
those networks and systems managed by vendors or third parties, to securely collect, process, transmit, disclose, share, use and 
store electronic information (including sensitive personal information and proprietary or confidential information) (collectively, 
“information systems”). Our information systems may prove inadequate to our business needs and necessary upgrades may not 
be available or operate as designed, which could result in excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business. These risks 
may be heightened as we integrate the combined systems and operations of Quidel and Ortho. Like any large corporation, from 
time to time the information systems on which we rely, including those controlled and managed by third parties, may be subject 
to computer viruses, malicious software, attacks by hackers and other forms of cyber intrusions or unauthorized access, any of 
which can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of personal or confidential information, all of which 
can be timely and costly to remediate. In addition, a security breach that impacts personal information could require us to 
comply with breach notification requirements under applicable data privacy and security laws, result in litigation or regulatory 
action, or otherwise subject us to liability under those laws.
If we experience a significant incident, such as a serious product vulnerability or security breach, or any other disruptions, 
delays or deficiencies from our ERP systems, it could adversely affect our ability to, among other processes, process orders, 
procure supplies, manufacture and ship products, track inventory, provide services and customer support, send invoices and 
track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. If this happens, our revenues could decline and 
our business could suffer, and we may need to make significant further investments to protect our information systems, data and 
infrastructure. An actual or perceived vulnerability, failure, disruption or breach of our information systems also could 
adversely affect the market perception of our products and services, as well as our perception among new and existing 
customers. Additionally, a significant security breach could result in theft of trade secrets and intellectual property, cause us to 
incur increased costs from insurance premiums and remediation measures and subject us to potential liability, litigation and 
regulatory or other government action. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business strategy, results of operations or 
financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
We attempt to mitigate the above risks by employing a number of measures, including implementing technical, physical and 
organizational security measures, monitoring and testing our security controls, conducting employee training and maintaining 
protective systems and contingency plans. Further, our contractual arrangements with service providers aim to appropriately 
mitigate third-party cybersecurity risks. We also maintain insurance coverage for cybersecurity incidents, which may not be 
adequate or cover all incidents. It is impossible to eliminate all cybersecurity risk and thus our information systems, products 
and services, as well as those of our service providers, remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats. 
Additionally, our information systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, 
including fire, natural disasters, power outages and system failures. 
Cybersecurity risks have generally increased in recent years because of the increased proliferation, sophistication and 
availability of complex malware and hacking tools to carry out cyber-attacks. As a result of the increased number of our 
employees with flexible work arrangements, we may also face increased cybersecurity risks due to our reliance on internet 
technology, which may create additional opportunities and vulnerabilities for cybercriminals to exploit. Furthermore, because 
the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and often are not recognized 
until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. 
We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period of time. As cybersecurity risks 
continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to mitigate new and emerging threats, while continuing 
to enhance our information security capabilities and investigate and remediate security vulnerabilities.
For more information on our cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance, see Part I, Item 1C, “Cybersecurity.”
Interruptions to our third-party IT service providers and/or the inability of our digital solutions to interoperate with certain 
operating systems could impair the delivery of our cloud-based solutions and negatively impact our business.
We rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host and deliver our cloud-based solutions, and any interruptions 
or delays in services from these service providers could impair the delivery of our cloud-based solutions. We do not control the 
hosting of these solutions, including data center facilities, or our or other parties’ access to the Internet. These facilities are 
vulnerable to damage or interruption from severe weather, natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, 
global pandemics and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of 
vandalism and other misconduct. 
35
We also depend on the interoperability of our mobile applications with popular mobile operating systems that we do not 
control, such as Android and iOS. Any changes in such systems that degrade the functionality of our digital solutions could 
negatively impact our business.
Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property
To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, obtain and protect proprietary technology rights; otherwise, we may 
lose market share or need to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling lower priced or technologically superior 
products or services that compete with ours.
Our ability to compete successfully in the diagnostic market depends on continued development and introduction of new 
proprietary technology and the improvement of existing technology, and our competitive position is therefore heavily 
dependent on obtaining and protecting our own proprietary technology or obtaining licenses to proprietary technology from 
others. We own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade secrets, know-how and trademarks 
in the U.S. and certain other countries. We make strategic decisions on whether to apply for intellectual property protection and 
the types of protection to pursue based on a cost-benefit analysis. While we endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights 
in certain jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported, the 
decision to file for intellectual property protection is made on a case-by-case basis. Because of the differences in foreign 
trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree 
of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S. Certain of our intellectual property rights are held through license 
agreements and collaboration arrangements with third parties. We also rely on trade secrets and certain other know-how and 
unregistered rights in and to our products and it is possible that others will independently develop the same trade secrets, know-
how and unregistered rights or obtain access to our trade secrets, know-how and unregistered rights. We license some of the 
rights to use our patents, trade secrets and know-how to third parties. Further, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other 
similar arrangements with our employees, consultants, advisors, collaborators and other persons who have access to our 
proprietary and confidential information, which may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology.
If we cannot continue to improve upon or develop, obtain and protect proprietary technology, we may lose market share or need 
to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling lower priced or technologically superior products or services that compete 
with our products. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason, including 
failure to file patent or trademark applications successfully or at all, failure to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms 
if at all, failure to retain intellectual property rights, including upon termination of our licenses or collaboration agreements, or 
failure to police our intellectual property, including through our licensees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, 
results of operations and financial condition.
Intellectual property risks, third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation or violation of proprietary rights and other 
claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, require us to redesign our products 
or services or attempt to seek licenses from third parties, and materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, 
the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management and other key 
employees.
Companies in or related to our industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. We are and have 
been subject to litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents or misappropriated 
intellectual property rights. We have hired and will continue to hire individuals or contractors who have experience in medical 
diagnostics and these individuals or contractors may have confidential trade secret or proprietary information of third parties. 
These individuals or contractors may use third-party information in connection with performing services for us or otherwise 
reveal third-party information to us. For these and other reasons, we could be sued for misappropriation of proprietary 
information and trade secrets. Such claims are expensive to defend and could result in substantial damage awards and 
injunctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to 
the extent that individuals or contractors apply technical or scientific information independently developed by them to our 
projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such technical or scientific information and may result in litigation.
Our customers may also be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated 
their proprietary rights or that may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. The defense and prosecution of patent and 
trade secret claims are both costly and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from other business matters. 
Moreover, an adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from developing, using, manufacturing 
or selling some of our processes or products and services; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved with such 
products may perform for us; require us to obtain a license on the disputed rights, which may not be available on commercially 
reasonable terms, if at all; subject us to significant liability in the form of royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive 
36
damages and attorneys’ fees; cause our distributors or end users to reduce or terminate purchases of our products; or require us 
to re-design our products or processes, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and 
results of operations.
In addition to the foregoing, we may also be required to indemnify certain customers, distributors and strategic partners under 
our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, 
misappropriated or misused another person’s proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by 
other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such 
technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be 
required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be 
required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or 
damages.
Risks Relating to Government Regulation
Regulation of Our Industry and Products
Some of our respiratory products were authorized by the FDA through an EUA and the loss of such authorization could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.
The FDA can authorize the emergency use of an unapproved medical product or an unapproved use of an approved medical 
product for certain emergency circumstances after the HHS Secretary has made a declaration of emergency justifying 
authorization of emergency use. An EUA allows use in a public health emergency to diagnose, treat or prevent serious or life-
threatening diseases or conditions caused by emerging infectious disease threats when there are no adequate, approved and 
available alternatives. These EUA standards for marketing authorization are lower than if the FDA had reviewed our tests under 
its traditional marketing authorization pathways, and we cannot assure you that our EUA-approved tests would be cleared or 
approved under those more onerous clearance and approval standards. The FDA has also established certain conditions that 
must be met in order to maintain authorization under these EUAs. The requirements that apply to the manufacture and sale of 
these products may be unclear and are subject to change. The FDA may also waive otherwise applicable cGMP requirements to 
accommodate emergency response needs. Some of our current respiratory products were initially authorized by the FDA under 
EUAs. 
HHS intends to publish advance notice of termination of each EUA declaration pertaining to medical devices in the Federal 
Register 180 days before the day on which the EUA declaration is terminated. HHS has not yet published such notice of 
termination for the EUAs we hold. While we have been working closely with the FDA to obtain traditional premarket clearance 
for some of our respiratory products by submitting de novo and 510(k) submissions, the loss of one or more of our EUAs for 
our respiratory products, if we are unable to timely obtain traditional premarket clearance, could have a material adverse effect 
on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
If we are unable to obtain or maintain required clearances or approvals for the commercialization of our products in the 
U.S. and certain foreign countries, we will not be able to sell those products in such jurisdictions, which could negatively 
impact our results of operations. 
Our future performance depends on, among other matters, if, when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval, 
clearances or authorizations for new products in the U.S. and certain foreign countries where we intend to sell our products. The 
testing, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and 
globally. Regulatory clearance and approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of 
clearances and approvals difficult to predict. In addition, regulatory processes are subject to change, and new or changed 
regulations can result in increased costs, unanticipated delays, or lengthened review times of our products. We may not be able 
to obtain U.S. and foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and any failure to do so may cause us to incur 
additional costs or prevent us from selling our products in the U.S. or certain foreign countries, which may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In the U.S., the FDA regulates most of our products. Clearance or approval to commercially distribute new medical devices is 
received from the FDA through a 510(k) clearance, or through approval of a PMA application. Approval to commercially 
distribute biologics is received from the FDA through approval of a BLA and may also require state licensing for the movement 
of biologics products in interstate commerce. The FDA may deny 510(k) clearance because, among other reasons, it determines 
that our product is not substantially equivalent to another U.S. legally marketed device. The FDA may deny approval of a PMA 
or BLA because, among other reasons, it determines that our product is not sufficiently safe or effective. Failure to obtain FDA 
clearance or approval would preclude commercialization in the U.S., which could materially and adversely affect our future 
results of operations.
37
Modifications or enhancements to a cleared or approved product that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that 
constitute a major change in the intended use of the product, could require new 510(k) clearances or possibly approval of a new 
PMA or BLA, or a supplement to those applications. We determine in the first instance whether a change to a product requires a 
new 510(k) clearance or premarket submission, but the FDA may review our decision not to seek a new 510(k). If the FDA 
disagrees with our determinations and requires us to submit a new 510(k), PMA or PMA supplement, or BLA or BLA 
supplement for any product modification, we may be required to cease marketing such product or to recall the modified product 
until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to civil, criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and 
damage to our reputation.
Our results of operations would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of regulatory authorizations, 
approvals or clearances, changes in laws and regulations, the loss of previously received authorizations, approvals or clearances 
or the placement of limits on the manufacture, marketing and use of our products.
In addition, the advertising, marketing and labeling of medical devices are highly regulated by the FDA and FTC. Our efforts to 
promote our products, including via direct-to-consumer marketing or social media initiatives, could subject us to additional 
scrutiny of our communication of risk information, benefits or claims by the FDA, FTC or both.
If the results of clinical studies required to gain regulatory approval to sell our products are not available when expected, or 
do not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of those products, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval and sell 
those products.
Before we can sell certain of our products, we must conduct clinical studies intended to demonstrate that those products are safe 
and effective and perform as expected. The results of these clinical studies (which are experiments involving human patients 
having the diseases or medical conditions that the product is trying to evaluate or diagnose) are used to obtain regulatory 
clearance or approval from government authorities, such as the FDA. Conducting clinical studies that may be required for 
regulatory approvals or clearances is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process, requiring months or years to complete, 
and our studies are not guaranteed to generate data that demonstrate safety and effectiveness or substantial equivalence of the 
evaluated product.
If we fail to adequately manage our clinical studies, those clinical studies and corresponding regulatory clearances or approvals 
may be delayed or we may fail to gain clearance or approval for our products altogether. Even if we successfully manage our 
clinical studies, we may not obtain favorable results and may not obtain regulatory clearance or approval for the applicable 
product. If we are unable to market and sell our new products or are unable to obtain clearances or approvals in the time frame 
needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.
Our business is subject to substantial regulatory oversight, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations may result 
in significant costs or, in certain circumstances, the suspension or withdrawal of previously obtained clearances or 
approvals.
Our businesses are extensively regulated by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies. These regulations 
impact many aspects of our operations, including development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, 
storage, advertising, promotion, physician interaction and record-keeping. Any material failure by us to comply with such 
applicable governmental regulations could result in product recalls, the imposition of fines, restrictions on our ability to conduct 
or expand our operations or the cessation of all or a portion of our operations.
The FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the 
performance of cleared or approved products or may place conditions on any product clearances or approvals that could restrict 
the commercial applications of those products. The discovery of problems with a product may result in restrictions on the 
product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, in some cases, we may sell products or provide 
services that are reliant on the use or commercial availability of third-party products, including medical devices or equipment, 
and regulatory restrictions placed upon any such third-party products could have a material adverse impact on the sales or 
commercial viability of our related products or services.
We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and other agencies for compliance with such agency’s requirements applicable 
to our products, including, without limitation, the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and Medical Device Reporting 
requirements in the U.S., and other applicable regulations worldwide. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers 
and distributors also are, or can be, subject to periodic regulatory inspections.
We are also subject to laws relating to matters such as privacy, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, 
environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur 
significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we 
may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products or injunctions 
38
against our distribution of products, termination of our service agreements by our customers, disgorgement of money, operating 
restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Disruptions at the FDA and other government agencies, including disruptions caused by funding shortages or statutory, 
regulatory or policy changes, could hinder their ability to hire, retain or deploy key leadership and other personnel, prevent 
them from performing normal business functions on which the operation of our business may rely, or otherwise prevent new 
or modified products from being developed, cleared, approved or commercialized in a timely manner or at all, which could 
negatively impact our business.
The ability of the FDA to review and approve new or modified products can be affected by a variety of factors, including 
government budget and funding levels, statutory, regulatory and policy changes, the FDA’s ability to hire and retain key 
personnel and accept the payment of user fees, and other events that may otherwise affect the FDA’s ability to perform routine 
functions. Average review times at the FDA have fluctuated in recent years as a result of these factors. In addition, government 
funding of other government agencies, such as those that fund R&D activities, is subject to the political process, which is 
inherently fluid and unpredictable. Disruptions at the FDA and other agencies may increase the time it takes for new or 
modified medical devices and biologics to be reviewed and/or cleared or approved by necessary government agencies, which 
would adversely affect our business. For example, over the last several years the U.S. government shut down several times and 
certain regulatory agencies, such as the FDA and the SEC, have had to furlough critical government employees and stop critical 
activities. If a prolonged government shutdown or other disruption occurs, it could significantly impact the ability of the FDA 
or other regulatory authorities to timely review and process our regulatory submissions, or to provide feedback on our 
submissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, future government shutdowns or other 
disruptions to normal operations could impact our ability to access the public markets and obtain funding necessary to properly 
capitalize and continue our operations. 
We may encounter challenges entering into contracts with government entities due to government-sponsored tendering 
requirements, and any contracts that we have entered into or will enter into with government entities may involve future 
funding, compliance and possible sanctions risks.
We endeavor to enter into contracts with government entities for grant-funded projects or the sale of our products. This may 
require us to follow government-sponsored tendering processes involving stringent restrictions, including pricing restrictions, 
ESG requirements, and other compliance obligations. As a result, we may face challenges meeting such government-sponsored 
tendering requirements, and ultimately, may not be awarded such contracts with government entities. 
In addition, any government contract that we have entered into or will enter into may expose us to higher potential liability than 
do other types of contracts due to government funding shortfalls, the government’s right to terminate for convenience, 
heightened legal compliance requirements, challenges from other industry participants, and our inability to meet key 
deliverables and milestones. Government funding applicable to our government grant contracts may be limited, and there is no 
guarantee that budget pressure at the federal, state and local level or changing governmental priorities will not eliminate funding 
availability. In addition, government contracts typically are subject to procurement laws that include socio-economic, 
employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting and other requirements. For example, our 
contracts with the U.S. government generally require us to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulations, the FCA, the 
Procurement Integrity Act, the Buy American Act and the Trade Agreements Act. Government contracts subject us to 
government audits, compliance investigations and oversight proceedings. Government agencies routinely review and audit 
government contractors or other vendors to determine whether they are complying with applicable contractual and legal 
requirements. Implementing policies, procedures and controls relating to the accounting and recordkeeping requirements is 
expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to comply with these requirements relating to any government contract that we have 
entered into or will enter into, or we fail an audit, we could be subject to various sanctions, including monetary damages, 
criminal and civil penalties, termination of contracts and suspension or debarment from government contract work. These 
requirements complicate our business and increase our compliance burden. The failure to meet key deliverables, milestones or 
compliance requirements could harm our reputation and may have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and 
our financial position or results of operations.
If one or more of our products is claimed to be defective, we could be subject to claims of liability and harm to our 
reputation that could adversely affect our business.
Our product development and production processes are complex and could expose our products to claims of defectiveness. 
Alleged manufacturing and design defects could lead to recalls (either voluntary or required by the FDA or other government 
authorities) and could result in the removal of one or more of our products from the market. Similarly, our diagnostic products 
could lead to a false positive or false negative result, affecting the eventual diagnosis or treatment of a patient and could lead to 
allegations that our products have caused injury or are found to be unsuitable for their intended use. Our immunohematology 
business in particular is subject to the risk of product liability claims, as even the slightest inaccuracies in a specimen’s analysis 
39
can lead to critical outcomes in the life of a patient, thereby leaving little to no room for error in the precision and accuracy of 
such testing. In addition, our marketing of monitoring services may cause us to be subject to various product liability or other 
claims, including, among others, claims that inaccurate monitoring results lead to injury or death, or, in the case of our 
toxicology monitoring services, the imposition of criminal sanctions. The risk of a product liability claim is also heightened for 
at-home tests that may be purchased and administered by the end-user customer and not a medical professional and our 
communication of risk information, benefits or claims, which is highly regulated by the FTC and the FDA, could be alleged to 
be misleading or erroneous. If the FTC or the FDA alleges or establishes that any of our communications are misleading, we 
could be subject to litigation and material penalties and fines. 
Depending on the corrective action we take to redress a product’s deficiencies, we may be required to obtain new clearances or 
approvals before we may market or distribute the corrected device. A defect or claim of a defect in the design or manufacture of 
our products could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and decrease sales of our products, and 
we could also face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, untitled letters, product seizures, 
injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. Moreover, any product liability or other claim brought against 
us, regardless of merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase to our insurance premiums. If we are held liable 
for a claim, that claim could materially affect our business and financial condition.
We are subject to healthcare regulations that could result in liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict 
our operations in the future.
We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the governments 
of states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. In the U.S., these healthcare laws and regulations include the 
federal Physician Self-Referral Law, federal Anti-Kickback Statute, federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the 
FCA, the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the federal 
Physician Payments Sunshine Act, the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act, U.S. federal consumer protection and unfair 
competition laws, and state law equivalents of each of the foregoing, as further described in Part I, Item 1, “Business—
Government Regulations” of this Annual Report. 
These laws and regulations, among other things, constrain our business, marketing and other promotional and research activities 
by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other 
potential purchasers of our products. In particular, these laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, 
discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commissions, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements, as 
well as interactions with healthcare professionals through consultant arrangements, product training, sponsorships or other 
activities. Efforts to support compliance of our third-party business arrangements with applicable healthcare and other laws and 
regulations involve substantial costs. Due to the breadth of these laws, the narrowness of statutory exceptions and regulatory 
safe harbors available, and the range of interpretations to which they are subject, governmental authorities may conclude that 
our business practices do not comply with healthcare laws and regulations.
To enforce compliance with the healthcare regulatory laws, certain enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of 
interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, 
convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. For example, the medical device industry’s relationship with physicians 
has been under increasing scrutiny by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (“OIG”), 
the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the state attorney generals and other foreign and domestic government agencies. 
Responding to investigations can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert management’s attention from the business. 
We may be subject to private qui tam actions brought by individual whistleblowers on behalf of federal or state governments, 
with potential liability under the FCA, including mandatory treble damages and significant per-claim penalties. Additionally, as 
a result of these investigations and qui tam actions, we may need to agree to additional compliance and reporting requirements 
as part of a consent decree, corporate integrity agreement or other type of government resolution. Any such investigation, or 
failure to comply with such investigation, including those led by the OIG or the DOJ, or settlement could increase our costs or 
otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even an unsuccessful challenge 
or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to.
If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal, state or foreign laws described above or any other current or 
future fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to significant penalties, 
including significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in government 
programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, imprisonment, contractual damages, reputational harm, oversight if we become 
subject to a consent decree, corporate integrity agreement or other government resolution, and disgorgement, and we could be 
required to curtail, restructure or cease our operations. Any of the foregoing consequences will negatively affect our business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
40
Certain Other Regulations Relating to Our Business
We use hazardous materials in our business that may result in substantial compliance costs or claims against us relating to 
handling, storage or disposal.
Our operations and facilities are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, rules, 
regulations and other requirements, including those governing the generation, use, manufacture, handling, transport, storage, 
treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, regulated materials, discharges and emissions to air and water, the cleanup of 
contamination and occupational health and safety matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations requires significant effort 
and costs. For example, our R&D and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials that may be 
subject to federal statutes commonly known as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Clean Water Act, among other laws and regulations. Noncompliance 
with such laws and regulations can result in fines or penalties or limitations on our operations or liability for remediation costs, 
as well as claims alleging personal injury, property, natural resource or environmental damages. 
We may also incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury arising from a release of or exposure to such regulated 
hazardous materials. Under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for costs relating to 
any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party disposal sites where we have sent wastes for treatment or 
disposal. Liability for contamination at contaminated sites may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, 
the release or disposal of such regulated substances and, in some cases, liability may be joint or several. Any such future 
expenses or liability could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 
In addition, if any governmental authorities impose new regulations with additional compliance burdens or alter their 
interpretation of the requirements of such existing regulations, such requirements or regulations could impair our research, 
development or production efforts by imposing additional, and possibly substantial, costs, restrictions or compliance procedures 
on our business or operations.
Given the nature of the penalties provided for in some of these regulations, we could be required to pay sizable fines, penalties 
or damages in the event of noncompliance with laws. Any violation or remediation requirement could also partially or 
completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, which would have a material adverse effect on 
our business. 
Further, our workers, properties and equipment may be exposed to potential operational hazards such as fires, safety incidents, 
releases of regulated materials, malfunction of equipment, accidents and natural disasters, which could result in personal injury 
or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and could potentially result in a 
suspension of operations, harm to our reputation and the imposition of civil or criminal fines or penalties, all of which could 
adversely affect our business.
We will be exposed to significant risks in relation to compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations and economic 
sanctions programs.
Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and those of 
various international and sub-national jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may 
expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies and individual directors, officers, employees and agents, 
and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international 
operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the Bribery Act and the 
Brazilian Anti-Bribery Act, among others, and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the United 
Nations, the E.U., the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”) and the U.S. 
Department of State. The FCPA prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or 
retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. We may deal with state-owned business enterprises, the 
employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. We are subject to the 
jurisdiction of various governments and regulatory agencies outside of the U.S., which may bring our personnel into contact 
with foreign officials responsible for issuing or renewing permits, licenses or approvals or for enforcing other governmental 
regulations. The FCPA also contains accounting provisions requiring issuers of securities listed in the U.S. to make and keep 
books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company, and to devise 
and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of 
foreign public officials and are more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-
exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain 
sanctioned countries, territories and designated persons, absent authorizations or exemptions under applicable law, such as 
OFAC’s licenses permitting certain humanitarian trade.
41
While we endeavor to have a strong culture of compliance and an adequate system of internal controls, including procedures to 
minimize and detect fraud in a timely manner, as well as processes for complying with OFAC authorizations or exemptions, 
there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent 
violations of applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents or partners and, as a result, we could be 
subject to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Our collection, use and disclosure of personal information, including health information, and confidential information is 
subject to federal and state privacy, data security and data protection regulations, as well as privacy, data security and data 
protection laws outside the U.S., including in the EEA, the U.K. and the People’s Republic of China, and our failure to 
comply with those laws and regulations or to adequately secure this information could result in significant liability or 
reputational harm.
In the ordinary course of business, we collect, process, transfer, disclose, share and use personal and confidential information, 
including from customers, employees and business contacts. These activities may subject us and our partners to federal, state 
and foreign privacy, data security and data protection laws, regulations, guidance, self-governing rules, industry standards, 
contractual requirements and other obligations as further described in Part I, Item 1, “Business—Government Regulations” of 
this Annual Report.
In the U.S., there are various laws regulating data privacy and security at the federal, state and local level, some of which are 
further described in the “Business—Government Regulations” section of this Annual Report. We are also subject to other 
regulations, guidance, self-governing rules, industry standards and contractual requirements. The legislative and regulatory 
landscape for privacy, data security and data protection continues to evolve, with jurisdictions in which we and our customers 
operate adopting or considering adopting new privacy, data security and data protection laws and regulations regarding the 
collection, use, processing, transfer, disclosure, sharing, security and storage of information obtained from consumers, 
employees and other individuals, including health-related information. There is also an increasing focus on incident response 
and breach notification requirements with regulations dictating how to prepare for, respond to and report security incidents and 
breaches. We may also be bound by contractual obligations with our customers relating to privacy, data protection and data 
security that are more stringent than applicable privacy, data security and data protection laws and regulations, and some 
companies often will not contract with vendors that do not meet more rigorous standards. 
Complying with these various laws, regulations, standards and contractual obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs, 
require us to change our business practices in a manner that does not align with our business objectives (including limiting our 
ability to collect, control, process, share, disclose and otherwise use personal information (including health and medical 
information that are subject to strict requirements)), reduce demand for certain of our digital solutions, restrict our ability to 
offer certain digital solutions in certain jurisdictions or subject us to inquiries by U.S., federal, state and foreign data protection 
regulatory agencies, all of which could result in sanctions, investigations, fines, penalties or otherwise negatively impact our 
business or reputation. Moreover, these requirements are evolving and may be modified, interpreted and applied in an 
inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with one another or other legal obligations with which 
we must comply, further increasing costs to comply, and increasing risks of potential failures or perceived failures to comply. 
Because many of these laws and regulations are recent, it is also generally unclear how the laws will be interpreted and 
enforced in practice by the relevant government authorities as many of the laws are drafted broadly and leave great discretion to 
the relevant government authorities to exercise.
Any failure or perceived failure by us or our employees, representatives, contractors, consultants, collaborators or other third 
parties to comply with such requirements or adequately address privacy and data security concerns, even if unfounded, could 
result in significant cost and liability to us, including civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, fines and exposures to private 
litigation, as a cost of doing business, or due to new or increasing fines or penalties for violations, damage our reputation, and 
adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, a cyber-attack or other security breach affecting personal 
information, including health or employee information, could also result in significant legal and financial exposure and 
reputational damage that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, including limiting our ability to process 
personal information or to operate in certain jurisdictions.
We continue to monitor the evolving privacy, data security and data protection landscape to support our efforts to comply with 
the requirements in the countries in which we do business.
We are subject to U.S. and foreign tax laws, and changes to such tax laws or differing interpretation of those laws by the 
relevant governmental authorities could adversely affect us.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. The U.S. Congress, the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we do business have had an 
extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of “base erosion and 
profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower 
42
tax rates. Thus, the tax laws in the U.S., the U.K. and other countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or 
retroactive basis, and any such significant changes could adversely affect our financial statements.
In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and 
by non-U.S. tax authorities. Due to the potential for changes to tax laws (or changes to the interpretation thereof) and the 
ambiguity and complexity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our foreign operations and 
intercompany arrangements and other factors, our estimates of income tax assets or liabilities may differ from actual payments, 
assessments or receipts. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may 
include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements could be adversely affected. Additionally, our 
interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which 
could result in material administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions. If we determine to repatriate earnings from 
foreign jurisdictions that have been considered permanently re-invested under existing accounting standards, it could also 
increase our effective tax rate. We continue to monitor changes in tax laws and the impact of proposed and enacted legislation 
in the U.S. and in the various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate.
Risks Relating to Corporate Finance
We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs or other business purposes, which 
could have adverse consequences on the interests of our stockholders, and may not be available on acceptable terms or at 
all.
We may need to seek to raise funds through the issuance of public or private debt or the sale of equity to achieve our business 
strategy or for other business purposes. In addition, we may need debt or equity financing to complete acquisitions. If we raise 
funds or acquire other technologies or businesses through issuance of equity, this could dilute the interests of our stockholders. 
Such financing activities may also depress the market price of shares of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital 
through the sale of additional equity securities. Moreover, the availability of additional capital, whether debt or equity from 
private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and industry or 
market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets 
lack sufficient liquidity or when we cannot otherwise raise additional capital or issue additional debt on acceptable terms, or at 
all.
Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to raise additional capital to fund our 
operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.
Our Credit Agreement governs our senior secured credit facilities, which consist of (i) a Term Loan in an original amount of 
$2,750.0 million and (ii) an $800.0 million Revolving Credit Facility (each capitalized term as defined in this Annual Report). 
As a result of our indebtedness, a portion of our cash flows will be required to pay interest and principal on our outstanding 
indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or have future borrowings available under the 
Revolving Credit Facility, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2023, 
we had total indebtedness of $2,414.6 million, and we had availability under our Revolving Credit Facility of $787.1 million 
(net of $12.9 million of outstanding letters of credit).
Subject to the limits contained in the Credit Agreement, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance working 
capital, capital expenditures, investments or business acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our 
higher level of debt would increase. Specifically, our higher level of debt could have important consequences to us and our 
stockholders, including: 
• making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, and if we fail to comply with these 
obligations, an event of default could result and our credit worthiness may be impacted; 
• limiting our ability to refinance or obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, 
investments or other general corporate requirements; 
• limiting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; 
• requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, 
thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments and other 
general corporate purposes; 
• exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as our borrowings under the credit facilities are at variable rates of 
interest; 
• the Credit Agreement contains, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and other 
restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or 
waived, could have a material adverse effect on us;
43
• increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, changes in our business and industry, general 
economic downturns and adverse industry and business conditions;
• to the extent the debt we incur requires collateral to secure such indebtedness, exposing our assets to risks and limiting 
our flexibility related to such assets;
• any default under our Credit Agreement may result in proceedings against collateral we have used to secure the credit 
facilities, including substantially all of our and our guarantor subsidiaries’ assets;
• limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete and to changing 
business and economic conditions; 
• placing us at a disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and affecting our ability to compete; and 
• increasing our cost of borrowing. 
The occurrence of any one of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, 
results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt.
Furthermore, borrowings under our credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Recently, 
interest rates have increased from historically low levels. If interest rates continue to increase, our debt service obligations on 
our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed may remain the same, and our net income and 
cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We have entered into a 
series of interest rate cap and interest rate swap agreements to hedge our interest rate exposures related to our variable rate 
borrowings under the credit facilities. However, it is possible that these hedging instruments or any future hedging instruments 
we enter into may not fully or effectively mitigate our interest rate risk and we may decide not to maintain hedging instruments 
in the future.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to service all of our indebtedness and may be 
forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. 
Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially 
reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations and 
our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. 
Additionally, if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, and the lenders under the credit 
facilities could terminate their commitments to loan additional money to us, the lenders could foreclose against the assets 
securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. All of these events could result in our 
stockholders losing all or a part of their investment. 
Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating 
performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, 
regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities 
sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity 
problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or 
operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any 
such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not 
allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use 
the proceeds from such dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other 
indebtedness when it becomes due. Because of these restrictions, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to 
obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. 
In addition, we conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries, some of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. 
Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flows by our subsidiaries and their ability to 
make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our 
subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. 
Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of 
our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions 
may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the Credit Agreement limits the ability of our subsidiaries to 
incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are 
subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be 
unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. 
44
The terms of the Credit Agreement impose restrictions that may limit our current and future operating flexibility, 
particularly our ability to respond to changes in the economy or our industry or to take certain actions, which could harm 
our long-term interests and may limit our ability to make payments on our indebtedness.
The Credit Agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on 
us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability, 
and the ability of our subsidiaries, to: 
• incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; 
• pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock; 
• prepay, redeem or repurchase certain indebtedness; 
• make business acquisitions; 
• make loans and investments; 
• sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; 
• incur liens; 
• enter into transactions with affiliates; 
• enter into new lines of business or alter the businesses we conduct; 
• designate any of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; 
• enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and 
• consolidate, merge, transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. 
In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to comply with two financial covenants consisting of a maximum Consolidated 
Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and a minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio (as defined in the 
Credit Agreement). See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Borrowings” for more 
information related to our financial covenants.
Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other 
circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions, changes in regulations and industry 
conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with such covenants. For example, compliance with the 
financial covenants would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience substantially lower revenues or greater costs 
than budgeted. The covenants under the Credit Agreement also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future 
downturn in our business or the economy in general. Further, in order to respond to market conditions, or if we are unable to 
comply with any of the covenants, we may need to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders of various provisions in the 
Credit Agreement and we may not be able to obtain such an amendment or waiver on reasonable terms, if at all. Additionally, 
our costs under these agreements would likely increase. A breach of any of the covenants under our Credit Agreement could 
result in an event of default, which could result in the accelerated payment of outstanding indebtedness or foreclosure on our 
assets pledged to secure the indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on us.
Risks Relating to Our Employees
We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees.
Our success will depend in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and sales, marketing, manufacturing, 
technical, scientific, technology and other key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, both in the 
industry in which we operate and where our operations are located. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able 
to attract or retain executives or key employees. The loss of any executive or other key personnel, particularly key 
manufacturing, R&D and technical personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our 
R&D, operations or strategic objectives. In addition, there could be disruptions to or distractions for the workforce and 
management, including in connection with activities of labor unions or work councils. While we may employ the use of certain 
retention programs, there can be no guarantee that they will prove to be successful. Furthermore, we may be required to incur 
significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees and may lose significant 
expertise and talent relating to our business, which may adversely affect our business.  
If we are required to make unexpected payments to any defined benefit plans or other post-employment benefit plans 
(“Benefit Plans”) applicable to our employees, our financial condition may be adversely affected.
Some of our current and former employees participate or participated in Benefit Plans that were sponsored by Ortho prior to the 
closing of the Combinations. We assumed certain underfunded and unfunded Benefit Plan liabilities, which amounted to 
approximately $36.0 million as of December 31, 2023. Several of these plans are unfunded and, while we do not believe the 
45
liabilities in relation to these plans are significant, they must be satisfied as they mature from our cash resources. In jurisdictions 
where the Benefit Plans are intended to be funded with assets in a trust or other funding vehicle, we expect that, while not 
significant, the liabilities will exceed the corresponding assets in each of the plans. Various factors, such as changes in actuarial 
estimates and assumptions (including in relation to life expectancy, discount rates and rates of return on assets), as well as 
actual return on assets, can increase the expenses and liabilities of the Benefit Plans. The assets and liabilities of the plans must 
be valued from time to time under applicable funding rules and, as a result, we may be required to increase the cash payments 
we make in relation to these Benefit Plans.
We could also be required in some jurisdictions to make accelerated payments up to the full buy-out deficit in our Benefit 
Plans, which would likely be far higher than the normal ongoing funding cost of the plans. Our operations and financial 
condition may be adversely affected to the extent that we are required to (i) make any additional payments to any relevant 
Benefit Plans in excess of the amounts assumed in our current projections and assumptions or (ii) report higher Benefit Plan 
expenses under relevant accounting rules.
We are subject to work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force, 
which may adversely impact our operations and cause us to incur incremental costs.
As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 7,100 employees located around the world consisting of commercial, supply 
chain, quality, regulatory and compliance, R&D and general administrative personnel. As of such date, approximately 15% of 
our employees globally were covered by a union, collective bargaining agreement or works council. Historically, we have not 
experienced work stoppages; however, in the future, we may be subject to potential union campaigns, work stoppages, union 
negotiations and other potential labor disputes. Additionally, future negotiations with unions or works councils in connection 
with existing labor agreements may (i) result in significant increases in our cost of labor, (ii) divert management’s attention 
away from operating our business or (iii) break down and result in the disruption of our operations. The occurrence of any of 
the preceding outcomes could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased 
operating results. Further, we may be subject to work stoppages at our suppliers or customers that are beyond our control.
General Risk Factors
We are subject to, and may in the future become subject to, claims and litigation that could result in significant expenses 
and could ultimately result in an unfavorable outcome for us.
From time to time, we are involved in litigation and other proceedings, including matters related to product liability claims, 
commercial disputes and intellectual property claims, as well as regulatory, employment and other claims related to our 
business. We may become subject to more proceedings as we expand our business, suppliers, customers and markets. Litigation 
related to the Company, our business and our operations or financial performance may also involve customers, competitors, 
suppliers, patients, stockholders, governmental authorities or other third parties. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and 
disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in significant 
settlement amounts, monetary damages, fines or injunctive relief that could affect our financial condition or results of 
operations. Even if lawsuits do not result in an unfavorable outcome, the costs of defending or prosecuting such lawsuits may 
be material to our business and our operations. Moreover, these lawsuits may divert management’s attention from the operation 
of our business, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make subjective judgments with respect to compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with applicable 
laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as corrective actions, product 
recalls, seizures or injunctions with respect to the sale of our products. The FDA may also withdraw any clearances or 
approvals we have obtained, or decline to issue additional clearances or approvals for any outstanding 510(k)s, PMAs or BLAs. 
The assessment of any civil and criminal penalties against us could severely impair our reputation within the industry and affect 
our operating results, and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could also have a material 
adverse effect on our business.
Expectations of our performance related to ESG matters, or the reporting of such matters, may impose additional costs on 
us and expose us to new risks.
There is an increasing focus and scrutiny from the SEC and other regulators, investors, customers, suppliers, vendors, 
employees and other stakeholders concerning corporate responsibility and sustainability and ESG factors in particular. 
Government entities are enhancing or advancing legal and regulatory requirements, including disclosure requirements, specific 
to ESG matters. For example, the state of California has adopted new climate change disclosure requirements and the E.U. has 
adopted the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. Compliance with such rules could require significant effort and 
resources and result in changes to our current ESG goals. Additionally, many investors use ESG factors to help guide their 
46
investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us if they believe our ESG performance is inadequate. 
Moreover, a number of customers who are payors or distributors have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include 
ESG provisions that their suppliers or manufacturers must comply with, or they may seek to include such provisions in their 
terms and conditions.
Standards for tracking and reporting ESG matters continue to evolve. Our use of disclosure frameworks and standards, and the 
interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. 
This may result in a lack of consistent or meaningful comparative data from period to period or between us and other 
companies in the same industry. Third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports have also increased in 
number to meet growing stakeholder demand for measurement of ESG performance. The criteria by which our corporate 
responsibility practices are assessed must be routinely monitored and may change, which could result in greater expectations of 
us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria. If we elect not to or are unable to satisfy such 
evolving standards for identifying, measuring and reporting ESG metrics, including ESG-related disclosures that may be 
required of public companies by the SEC and other regulators, stakeholders may conclude that our performance related to 
corporate responsibility and ESG matters is inadequate. 
Moreover, our market capitalization has increased significantly in the last few years. Accordingly, we may be benchmarked 
against larger peer companies, some of which may have more resources than us and thus may have achieved better ESG 
performance and/or a higher ESG rating profile. We may face reputational damage if our ESG performance or ESG rating 
profile is, or is perceived as being, below that of our competitors or peer companies. In addition, we could fail, or be perceived 
as failing, in our achievement of certain ESG-related initiatives or goals, or we could be criticized for the scope of such 
initiatives or goals or our standards for measuring and reporting such goals. Our failure to satisfy stakeholder expectations 
related to our ESG performance or to accomplish or accurately track and report on our ESG goals on a timely basis, or at all, 
could result in the loss of business or difficulty obtaining new business or new supplier relationships, adversely affect our 
reputation, stock price, financial condition, results of operation or growth, expose us to increased scrutiny from stakeholders 
and enforcement authorities, which may result in litigation or regulatory action or otherwise subject us to liability, and present 
challenges in attracting and retaining talented employees.
We are exposed to business risk which, if not fully covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our results of 
operations.
We face a number of business risks, including exposure to product liability, property, business interruption and cybersecurity 
risks. Although we maintain insurance for a number of these risks, we may face claims for types of damages, or for amounts of 
damages, that are not covered by our insurance, or our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to offset the costs of any 
payments or other losses, lost sales or increased costs experienced during business interruptions. For some risks, we may not 
obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive related to the risks presented. Due to market 
conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain 
insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Further, our existing insurance 
may not be renewed at the same cost and level of coverage as currently in effect or may not be renewed at all. As a result, we 
may not be able to renew our insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 
Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a 
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Some provisions of our Charter, our Bylaws and Delaware law may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress 
the price of our common stock and inhibit our stockholders’ ability to receive a premium price for their shares.
Provisions of our Charter could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our business, even if such change in 
control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Charter allows our Board to issue up to five million shares of preferred 
stock and to fix the rights and preferences of such shares without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could make it more 
difficult for a third party to acquire our business and may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Our Bylaws include 
advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or 
director nomination to us within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting and do not permit stockholders to 
call a special meeting of the stockholders, unless such stockholders hold at least 50% of our stock entitled to vote at the 
meeting. These provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our 
common stock.
47
Our Bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the “Court of Chancery”) as the sole and exclusive 
forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our 
stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.
Our Bylaws provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, (i) the Court of Chancery (or, if 
the Court of Chancery does not have, or declines to accept, jurisdiction, another state court or a federal court located within the 
State of Delaware) will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any claims (other 
than any cause of action arising under the Securities Act), including claims in the right of the Company that are based on a 
violation of duty by a current or former director, officer, employee or stockholder in such capacity, or as to which the Delaware 
General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Chancery, and (ii) the federal district courts of the U.S. will, to 
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any cause of action arising under the 
Securities Act, but that the forum selection provision will not apply to claims brought to enforce a duty or liability created by 
the Exchange Act. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock will be 
deemed to have notice of, and to have consented to, the provisions of our Bylaws described in the preceding sentence. This 
forum selection provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for 
disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such 
persons and result in increased costs for a stockholder to bring a claim. There is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce 
such provisions and stockholders cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations 
thereunder. If a court were to find these provisions of our Bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of 
the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other 
jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The market price of our common stock may be volatile.
The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may 
adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance and the success of the 
integration of Quidel and Ortho. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of our common stock include:
• global macroeconomic, geopolitical or market conditions;
• actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors;
• changes in financial projections by us, if any, or by any securities analysts that may cover our shares;
• conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace;
• announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;
• announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;
• additions or departures of key personnel; and
• issuances, repurchases or sales of our common stock, including sales of common stock by our directors and officers or 
our significant investors and any stock repurchase program.
Future sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the public market, or the perception that such sales may 
occur, could reduce the price of our common stock, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or 
convertible securities may dilute ownership in the Company.
The sale of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing 
market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult 
for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.
All of our issued shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, 
except for any shares held by our affiliates, as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), including 
certain of our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, which shares may be sold in the public market only if they are 
registered under the Securities Act or are sold pursuant to an exemption from registration such as Rule 144. Shares of our 
common stock covered by registration rights represent approximately 19% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2023. 
Registration of any of these outstanding shares of common stock would result in such shares becoming freely tradable without 
compliance with Rule 144 upon effectiveness of the registration statement. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders 
exercise their registration rights, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares 
sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise 
additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities.
In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions, or otherwise. We cannot predict 
the size of future issuances of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock or the 
effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. 
48
Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception 
that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.
If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our 
financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would 
harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. 
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a 
public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be 
harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain an effective system of internal controls will be 
successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, or that we 
will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or 
maintain effective internal controls, including due to the Combinations or otherwise, or difficulties encountered in 
implementing or improving internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting 
obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, 
which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity 
We are committed to maintaining effective governance and oversight of cybersecurity risks. Our cybersecurity strategy focuses 
on implementing effective and efficient mechanisms, controls, technologies, systems and other processes across our global IT 
networks and systems to assess, identify and manage material risks from potential unauthorized occurrences on or through our 
IT systems that may result in adverse effects on the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our IT systems and the data 
residing therein. These processes are designed to promote (i) strong controls across our entire IT ecosystem, (ii) transparency 
across our IT infrastructure so that our information security team can detect, identify and escalate anomalies for further analysis 
and action, and (iii) a sound enterprise security architecture with security integrated into each phase of system implementation. 
We believe that the processes and controls we have established to protect our stakeholders’ interests, including with respect to 
our current regulated products and internal systems, are robust and aligned with applicable cybersecurity regulations and certain 
identified industry best practices. This includes security by design, regular penetration testing, vulnerability scanning and 
standardization where possible of cybersecurity architecture principles.
Our cybersecurity risk management is part of our broader enterprise risk management process, which is managed by our 
internal audit team with oversight from our executive leadership, and ultimately, the Audit Committee and the Board. 
Supported by a global team of information security professionals, we have in place a variety of tools, processes and services 
designed to identify the impacts of changing cybersecurity threats within our IT networks and systems and those networks and 
systems managed by key vendors or third parties. Cybersecurity risks are identified, quantified and mitigated by leveraging 
detection and preventive technologies, including security monitoring, intrusion detection and prevention systems, routine risk 
assessments, a vulnerability management infrastructure and a global incident response program. In addition, we also 
periodically consult with outside advisors and experts to anticipate future trends, such as threats and issues within the healthcare 
industry as well as updates on key regulatory changes, including evolving cybersecurity policies and mandates from the FDA 
and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
We identify and address cybersecurity risks associated with key third-party service providers through security and privacy 
assessments prior to engaging these third parties, the breadth of which is determined by factors such as the type of data, if any, 
the third party will have access to, whether the third party will have access to our networks and systems, and whether the third 
party will provide hardware or software to be used in our products or elsewhere in our organization. Depending on the results of 
these assessments, we may conduct further assessments prior to or periodically throughout the course of our engagement limit 
or cease plans to engage the third party, or negotiate specific contractual protections or remediation provisions.
We also aim to improve our identity and access management by limiting individuals’ access to information only to that which is 
necessary to conduct their official duties and granting individuals access privileges only to user accounts or processes that are 
essential to perform their intended functions. Multi-factor authentication and role-based access controls are also core elements 
of our identity and access management processes. Additionally, we periodically offer training and education to our employees 
on cyber risks and remind our employees of critical end-user best practices, such as current phishing trends. Information 
security risk is managed by a cross-functional team, which includes our procurement, compliance, privacy and legal teams, 
allowing for a holistic view of risks related to the safety and privacy of critical data, such as customer account details, financial 
49
data and intellectual property. We aim to secure our data and information throughout their lifecycle – from creation, collection 
and processing to dissemination, use, storage and disposition.
While we have not identified any material cybersecurity threats or incidents during the last fiscal year, there can be no 
guarantee that we will not be the subject of future successful attacks, threats or incidents. Additional information on 
cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” under the heading “Risks Relating to Our IT 
Systems.”
Oversight of cybersecurity risk involves a three-tiered hierarchy designed to leverage the appropriate level of expertise to assess 
and manage such risks. This consists of our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), Security Governance Committee 
(“SGC”) and the Audit Committee of the Board. Our CISO is primarily responsible for our global information security 
program. In this role, the CISO is responsible for the effective operations of information security controls and management of 
information security and cybersecurity risks across the enterprise, including within our products and operations. The CISO also 
aligns our information security strategy with our business and technical strategies and integrates, where possible, security 
initiatives into roadmaps of other functions to promote accountability and awareness. The CISO is also responsible for 
developing and implementing our information security policies and standards in accordance with applicable global regulatory 
requirements and facilitating updates to these policies and standards at least annually. Our CISO has 20 years of global 
information security leadership experience across financial services, legal and medical device industries and over 35 years of 
broader IT experience.
The SGC is comprised of members of our executive leadership team, including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating 
Officer, General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) and CISO. The CISO reports to the 
SGC on a regular basis, and informs the committee of critical risks that could potentially affect our information security and 
cybersecurity posture, as well as regulatory compliance; the status of key projects designed to evolve our information security 
programs; and any significant cybersecurity issues, incidents and patterns of events. The SGC has the authority to (i) investigate 
any matter brought to its attention that may impact our ability to adequately protect our information assets and (ii) to involve its 
members, the Board, other steering committees, government agencies and law enforcement, as it deems appropriate to respond 
to and remediate such matters. The CISO provides updates to the SGC during the course of significant cybersecurity incidents 
and in parallel, response teams partner with our IT and legal teams, law enforcement and others as needed to triage and 
remediate such incidents. Following such events, we implement changes as appropriate to improve our risk mitigation and 
remediation capabilities as cyber threats evolve.
The Audit Committee of the Board oversees our cybersecurity risk management and strategy and has an oversight role that 
involves reviewing, establishing policies for, and assessing the efficacy of processes used to evaluate significant risk exposures 
and the measures management implements to mitigate these risks. The Audit Committee is informed about cybersecurity risks 
through regular management reports on the performance of internal and/or external cybersecurity audits and assessments and 
the effectiveness of existing cybersecurity practices. The CIO, CISO, other members of the SGC, and other personnel also 
periodically update the Audit Committee on material cybersecurity risks, significant cybersecurity incidents, mitigation 
measures and impacts to the Company. The Board receives updates from management, including the CIO, and the Audit 
Committee on cybersecurity risks on at least an annual basis.
50
Item 2. Properties
At December 31, 2023, our material operating locations, which we define as the facilities we lease with more than 75,000 
square feet plus all owned facilities of more than 20,000 square feet, were as follows:
Location Status Lease Term
Square
Footage Primary Use
Raritan, NJ Owned N/A  569,000 Administrative offices, R&D and 
manufacturing
Rochester, NY (513 
Technology Blvd)
Owned N/A  438,628 Manufacturing
San Diego, CA 
(Summers Ridge)
Leased 2033 - options to extend for 
two additional 5-year periods
 316,531 Administrative offices, sales and marketing, 
R&D and manufacturing (principal 
executive offices)
Rochester, NY (100 
Indigo Creek)
Owned N/A  260,221 Office, R&D
Pencoed, Wales Owned N/A  198,380 Office, manufacturing
Athens, OH Leased 2027  149,240 Administrative offices, sales and marketing, 
R&D and manufacturing
Carlsbad, CA 
(Rutherford)
Leased 2036 - options to extend for 
two additional 5-year periods
 128,745 Manufacturing
Memphis, TN Leased 2026  116,500 Warehouse
San Diego, CA 
(Waples Ct.)
Leased 2031 - options to extend for 
two additional 5-year periods
 106,412 Office, light manufacturing, storage, 
packaging, assembly and distribution
Rochester, NY (130 
Indigo Creek)
Owned N/A  103,138 Office, R&D
Strasbourg, France Owned N/A  97,951 Warehouse, service
Rochester, NY (1000 
Lee Road)
Leased 2024  89,114 Manufacturing
San Diego, CA 
(McKellar)
Owned N/A  72,863 Administrative offices, R&D and 
manufacturing
Pompano Beach, FL Owned N/A  21,500 Manufacturing
We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs, and we currently do not anticipate any material difficulty in 
renewing any of our leases as they expire or securing additional or replacement facilities, in each case, on commercially 
reasonable terms. However, in anticipation of our growth strategy, we may pursue additional facilities. 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
The information set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12. Commitments and 
Contingencies—Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings” is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
51
Part II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “QDEL.” 
As of February 22, 2024, we had approximately 88 common stockholders of record and we do not anticipate paying any cash 
dividends in the foreseeable future.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases of our common stock by us during the three months ended 
December 31, 2023: 
Period
Total Number 
of Shares 
Purchased (1)
Average Price 
Paid per Share
Total Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced Plans 
or Programs
Approximate Dollar Value 
of Shares that May Yet Be 
Purchased Under the Plans 
or Programs (2)
October 2, 2023 - October 29, 2023  3,674 $ 66.64  — $ 225,677,460 
October 30, 2023 - November 26, 2023  121,783  60.28  120,000  218,444,460 
November 27, 2023 - December 31, 2023  858  70.68  —  218,444,460 
Total  126,315 $ 60.54  120,000 $ 218,444,460 
(1) Includes shares surrendered, if any, to the Company to satisfy the payment of minimum tax withholding obligations.
(2) On August 17, 2022, the Board authorized a stock repurchase program, allowing the Company to repurchase up to $300.0 million of its 
common stock through August 17, 2024 (the “Stock Repurchase Program”). During the three months ended December 31, 2023, the 
Company repurchased 120,000 shares of outstanding common stock under the Stock Repurchase Program for approximately $7.2 million.
52
STOCKHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on our 
common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Nasdaq Composite Index and Nasdaq Health Care Composite Index for 
the five years ended December 31, 2023. The graph assumes (i) an initial investment of $100 as of the market close on 
December 31, 2018 in our common stock, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Nasdaq Health Care Composite Index and (ii) 
reinvestment of dividends. The graph represents stock price performance of Quidel, from fiscal year 2019 through May 27, 
2022, and QuidelOrtho following the closing date of the Combinations. The stock price performance of our common stock 
depicted in the graph represents past performance only and is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR TOTAL CUMULATIVE RETURN
Among QuidelOrtho Corporation, the Nasdaq Composite and the Nasdaq Health Care Composite Indices
QuidelOrtho Corporation Nasdaq Composite Index
Nasdaq Healthcare Composite Index
12/18 12/19 12/20 12/21 12/22 12/23
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Base Period
Company/Index 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2022 12/31/2023
QuidelOrtho Corporation $ 100.00 $ 153.69 $ 367.98 $ 276.51 $ 175.48 $ 150.96 
Nasdaq Composite Index $ 100.00 $ 135.23 $ 194.24 $ 235.78 $ 157.74 $ 226.24 
Nasdaq Health Care Composite 
Index $ 100.00 $ 125.83 $ 163.63 $ 157.82 $ 125.58 $ 133.80 
Item 6. [Reserved]
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the 
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve material risks and uncertainties. This discussion 
should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Future Uncertainties and Forward-Looking Statements” on page 4 and 
the “Risk Factors” starting on page 26 of this Annual Report. In addition, our discussion of QuidelOrtho’s financial condition 
53

and results of operations in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related 
Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Overview
Our vision is to advance diagnostics to power a healthier future. With our expertise in immunoassay and molecular testing, 
clinical chemistry and transfusion medicine, we aim to provide clarity to clinicians and patients to help create better health 
outcomes. Our global infrastructure and commercial reach support our customers across more than 130 countries and territories 
with quality diagnostics, a broad test portfolio and market-leading service. We operate globally with manufacturing facilities in 
the U.S. and U.K. and with sales centers, administrative offices and warehouses located throughout the world.
We manage our business geographically to better align with the market dynamics of the specific geographic regions in which 
we operate, with our reportable segments being North America, EMEA and China. Latin America, Japan and Asia Pacific are 
immaterial operating segments that are not considered reportable segments and are included in “Other.” We generate our 
revenue primarily in the following business units: Labs, Transfusion Medicine, Point of Care and Molecular Diagnostics.
On May 27, 2022, pursuant to the BCA, Quidel and Ortho consummated the Combinations and each of Quidel and Ortho 
became a wholly owned subsidiary of QuidelOrtho. Our Consolidated Financial Statements for 2023 include a full year of 
Ortho operations. For additional information about the Combinations, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data—Note 2. Business Combination.”
For fiscal year 2023, Total revenues decreased by 8% to $2,997.8 million as compared to the prior year. For fiscal year 2022, 
Total revenues increased by 92% to $3,266.0 million as compared to the prior year. Currency exchange rates had an 
unfavorable impact of 100 basis points and 300 basis points on our growth rate for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. 
Our revenues can be highly concentrated over a small number of products, including certain of our respiratory products. For 
fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, revenues related to our respiratory products accounted for approximately 24%, 57% and 81% 
of our Total revenues, respectively, primarily driven by sales of our COVID-19 products.
Planned Wind-Down of U.S. Donor Screening Portfolio
In February 2024, we initiated a wind-down plan to transition out of the U.S. donor screening portfolio. Specifically, we plan to 
wind-down only the VIP platform and microplate assays, which are only sold in the U.S., and have a lower growth and margin 
profile than other parts of our Transfusion Medicine business. This wind-down will not affect any donor screening portfolio 
outside of the U.S. While our goal is to wind-down this U.S. donor screening portfolio, we will continue to support our existing 
customers and honor our contractual commitments.
Supply Chains
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and other macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions, including inflationary pressures, 
general economic slowdown or a recession, rising interest rates, foreign exchange rate volatility and changes in monetary 
policy, we have experienced shortages and delays in receiving certain raw materials and other components for our products and 
have experienced logistics and distribution challenges, as well as challenges in labor availability and rising labor costs, all of 
which have affected our ability to fulfill customer orders, including instrument placements, on a timely basis. While we have 
made notable improvements in 2023, these supply, production, logistics, distribution and labor disruptions and challenges have 
impacted, and we expect will continue for some period of time to impact, our operations. However, the significance and 
frequency of such impact have lessened during the fourth quarter of 2023.
Some of our raw materials are available from a limited number of sources. During 2023 and 2022, we encountered some 
increasing pressures on raw material pricing, though they were less severe in fiscal year 2023 than in 2022. To mitigate these 
supply chain challenges, we continue to (i) partner with suppliers to invest in additional capacity and raw material inventory, 
(ii) diversify our supply base, where possible, to minimize reliance on a single source of supply for key raw materials and 
components and (iii) create redundancy in our global supply chain. In addition, we routinely evaluate our supply chain for 
potential gaps and continue to take other steps intended to help address continuity. In our distribution operations, we have been 
investing in and implementing automation capabilities to help improve accuracy and timeliness of customer shipments.
We continue to monitor these macroeconomic and geopolitical developments and the impact of such factors on our business. 
We cannot currently predict the frequency, duration or scope of these supply, production, logistics, distribution and labor 
disruptions and challenges. However, we proactively work with our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, industry partners and 
government agencies to address these challenges in our efforts to meet the needs of our customers. Despite our mitigation 
efforts, such disruptions and challenges have materially affected and could further materially affect our ability to timely 
manufacture and distribute our products and could unfavorably impact our results of operations depending on the nature and 
duration of such disruptions and challenges.
54
Outlook
Our financial performance and results of operations will depend on future developments and other factors that are highly 
uncertain, continuously evolving and unpredictable, including the occurrence, spread, severity, duration and emergence of new 
variants of respiratory diseases, including flu, strep, RSV and COVID-19, as well as ongoing supply, production and logistics 
challenges.
Demand for our respiratory products, which includes our COVID-19 products, declined in 2023 compared to 2022 due to the 
end of the U.S. public health emergency regarding COVID-19 and the transition of COVID-19 from a pandemic to an endemic 
environment. We expect demand for our respiratory products to continue to fluctuate and pricing pressures on certain products 
to persist as a result of a number of factors, including increased supply, emergence and spread of new variants, and the seasonal 
demands of the respiratory seasons, which are typically more prevalent during the fall and winter.
Because our business environment is highly competitive, our long-term growth and profitability will depend in part on our 
ability to retain and grow our current customers and attract new customers through developing and delivering new and 
improved products and services that meet our customers’ needs and expectations, including with respect to product 
performance, product offerings, cost, automation and other work-flow efficiencies. As a result, we expect to continue to 
maintain our emphasis on R&D investments for longer term growth, including for our next generation platforms and assays, as 
well as additional assays to be launched on our current platforms. In addition, we expect to continue to evaluate strategic 
opportunities to expand our product lines and services, production capabilities, technologies and geographic footprint and 
address other business challenges and opportunities.
While we expect the revenues and financial results from our respiratory products to be affected by the seasonal demands of the 
respiratory seasons, we intend to continue our focus on prudently managing our business and delivering improved financial 
results, while at the same time striving to introduce new products and services into the market.
Results of Operations
Comparison of fiscal years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021
Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending the Sunday closest to December 31. Fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 were 52 
weeks.
Revenues
The following table compares Total revenues by business unit for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Labs $ 1,425.4 $ 820.2 $ 44.8  74 %  1,731 %
Transfusion Medicine  648.5  393.8  —  65 % N/M
Point of Care  892.2  1,955.3  1,453.3  (54) %  35 %
Molecular Diagnostics  31.7  96.7  200.5  (67) %  (52) %
Total revenues $ 2,997.8 $ 3,266.0 $ 1,698.6  (8) %  92 %
* N/M - Not meaningful
For fiscal year 2023, Total revenues decreased to $2,997.8 million from $3,266.0 million for the prior year. The increases in 
Labs and Transfusion Medicine revenues were primarily related to incremental revenues from the Combinations. Additionally, 
the increase in Labs revenue included a $19.2 million settlement award from a third party related to one of our collaboration 
agreements. The Point of Care business unit contributed to revenue decline, driven by decreases of $846.0 million in sales of 
QuickVue SARS Antigen assays and $219.1 million in sales of Sofia SARS Antigen assays. Molecular Diagnostics revenue 
decreased by $65.0 million, primarily driven by lower demand for the Lyra SARS Antigen assay due to the end of the public 
health emergency in the U.S. Currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of approximately 100 basis points on the 
growth rate for fiscal year 2023.
For fiscal year 2022, Total revenues increased to $3,266.0 million from $1,698.6 million for the prior year. The increases in 
Labs and Transfusion Medicine were primarily related to new revenues from the Combinations. The Point of Care business unit 
contributed to revenue growth, primarily driven by an increase of $586.1 million in sales of QuickVue SARS Antigen assays, 
partially offset by lower sales of Sofia assays and $46.7 million lower BNP sales due to the transition of the BNP Business to 
Beckman. The decrease in revenues related to the transition of the BNP Business did not materially impact our gross profit. 
55
Molecular Diagnostics revenue decreased by $103.8 million, primarily driven by lower demand and pricing of the Lyra SARS 
Antigen assay. Currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of approximately 300 basis points on the growth rate for 
fiscal year 2022.
Cost of Sales, Excluding Amortization of Intangible Assets
Cost of sales, excluding amortization of intangible assets, increased to $1,503.4 million, or 50.2% of Total revenues, for fiscal 
year 2023, compared to $1,330.0 million, or 40.7% of Total revenues, for fiscal year 2022. The increase in cost of sales, 
excluding amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of revenue, was primarily driven by incremental revenues in the 
Labs and Transfusion Medicine business units as a result of the Combinations and a decrease in sales of respiratory products. 
We also recorded $60.6 million of expense related to the unwind of the inventory fair value adjustment related to the 
Combinations during fiscal year 2022.
Cost of sales, excluding amortization of intangible assets, increased to $1,330.0 million, or 40.7% of Total revenues, for fiscal 
year 2022, compared to $420.3 million, or 24.7% of Total revenues, for fiscal year 2021. The increase in cost of sales, 
excluding amortization of intangible assets, was primarily driven by a large increase in sales of QuickVue SARS Antigen 
assays in 2022, as well as new product sales in the Labs and Transfusion Medicine business units as a result of the 
Combinations. We also recorded $60.6 million of expense related to the unwind of the inventory fair value adjustment related 
to the Combinations during fiscal year 2022. There were also increases in supply chain and other indirect manufacturing costs, 
which were only partially offset by increased absorption driven by higher production volumes.
Operating Expenses
The following table summarizes operating expenses for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023
% of
Total 
Revenues 2022
% of
Total 
Revenues 2021
% of
Total 
Revenues
Selling, marketing and administrative $ 763.2  25.5 % $ 621.0  19.0 % $ 239.6  14.1 %
Research and development  246.8  8.2 %  190.5  5.8 %  95.7  5.6 %
Amortization of intangible assets  204.8  6.8 %  132.5  4.1 %  27.4  1.6 %
Acquisition and integration costs  113.4  3.8 %  136.0  4.2 %  9.6  0.6 %
Other operating expenses  27.1  0.9 %  12.3  0.4 %  —  — %
Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2023 increased by $142.2 million, or 22.9%, to $763.2 million 
from $621.0 million for the prior year, primarily due to the incremental impact of the Combinations, partially offset by freight 
expense due to lower sales and shipment volume and lower employee compensation costs.
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2022 increased by $381.4 million, or 159.2%, to $621.0 million 
from $239.6 million for the prior year, primarily driven by the Combinations which contributed $326.5 million in increased 
expense, freight expense due to higher sales volume and expedited shipping, product promotional spend associated with the 
QuickVue At-Home OTC COVID-19 test, professional fees and higher employee-related costs.
Research and Development Expense
Research and development expense for fiscal year 2023 increased by $56.3 million, or 29.6%, to $246.8 million from $190.5 
million for the prior year, primarily due to the incremental impact of the Combinations, as well as increased costs related to the 
development of Savanna, QuickVue OTC assays and Sofia products.
Research and development expense for fiscal year 2022 increased by $94.8 million, or 99.1%, to $190.5 million from $95.7 
million for the prior year, primarily due to the Combinations which contributed $86.0 million in increased expense, as well as 
increased costs related to SARS, Sofia and Savanna projects, and increased costs related to compensation driven by increased 
headcount and clinical trials.
Amortization of Intangible Assets 
Amortization of intangible assets for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $204.8 million, $132.5 million and $27.4 million, 
respectively. The increases in amortization expense in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 and fiscal year 2022 
compared to fiscal year 2021 were primarily due to the Combinations. 
56
Acquisition and Integration Costs
Acquisition and integration costs were $113.4 million, $136.0 million and $9.6 million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, 
respectively. The decrease in costs in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to acquisition costs 
attributable to the Combinations, partially offset by higher integration-related costs. The increase in costs in fiscal year 2022 
compared to fiscal year 2021 was primarily due to acquisition and integration-related costs attributable to the Combinations. 
Costs for fiscal year 2021 were primarily related to the evaluation of new business development opportunities, including the 
Combinations.
Other Operating Expenses
Other operating expenses were $27.1 million and $12.3 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, which were 
primarily related to the profit share expense for our Joint Business with Grifols acquired in connection with the Combinations.
Non-operating Expenses
The following table summarizes non-operating expenses, net for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Interest expense, net $ 147.6 $ 75.7 $ 5.8  95.0 % N/M
Loss on extinguishment of debt  —  24.0  —  (100.0) % N/M
Other expense (income), net  20.6  8.1  (0.1)  154.3 % N/M
* N/M - Not meaningful
Interest Expense, Net
Interest expense, net was $147.6 million, $75.7 million and $5.8 million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The 
increases in interest expense, net in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 and fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 
2021 were primarily related to the Term Loan under the Credit Agreement entered into in connection with the Combinations. 
See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Borrowings” for more information related to our 
Term Loan.
Loss on Extinguishment of Debt
Loss on extinguishment of debt was $24.0 million for fiscal year 2022, and was related to the satisfaction and discharge of the 
senior notes and termination of the former term loans and revolving credit facility of Ortho, which occurred in connection with 
the consummation of the Combinations.
Other Expense (Income), Net
Other expense (income), net was $20.6 million, $8.1 million and $(0.1) million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, 
respectively. The increase in Other expense (income), net in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily related 
to (i) the release of tax reserves upon the settlement of certain U.S. federal tax matters, with an offsetting benefit recorded to 
income tax expense and (ii) net foreign currency losses. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—
Note 6. Income Taxes” for more information related to our indemnification assets. The change in Other expense (income), net 
in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 was primarily related to net foreign currency losses and loss on investment, 
partially offset by fair value gains in interest rate caps.
Income Taxes
For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we recognized income tax benefits of $19.0 million in relation to loss before taxes of $29.1 
million and income tax provisions of $187.2 million in relation to income before taxes of $735.9 million, resulting in effective 
tax rates of 65.3% and 25.4%, respectively. For fiscal year 2023, the effective tax rate differed from the U.S. federal statutory 
rate primarily due to a decrease in our pre-acquisition U.S. federal reserves for uncertain tax positions due to settlement of 
certain tax matters partially offset by net operating losses in certain subsidiaries not being benefited due to the establishment of 
valuation allowances and Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”). For fiscal year 2022, the effective tax rate was 
primarily impacted by income taxes owed in certain U.S. states, foreign income taxed at rates other than the applicable U.S. 
rate, and the deduction for foreign derived intangible income (“FDII”). 
57
We recognized an income tax provision of $187.2 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 25.4% for fiscal year 2022. This 
effective tax rate is comparable to the effective tax rate of 21.8% for fiscal year 2021. The lower tax expense for fiscal year 
2022 compared to the prior year was primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax profits and state taxes, foreign income taxed at rates 
other than the applicable U.S. rate, and an increased deduction for FDII, partially offset by increases in non-deductible 
executive compensation, GILTI and acquisition-related costs. The Company will treat any U.S. tax on foreign earnings under 
GILTI as a current period expense when incurred.
Segment Results
We operate under three geographically-based reportable segments: North America, EMEA and China. Our operations in Latin 
America, Japan and Asia Pacific are immaterial operating segments that are not considered reportable segments and are 
included in “Other.”
The key indicators that we monitor are as follows:
• Total revenues — This measure is discussed in the section entitled “Results of Operations.”
• Adjusted EBITDA — Adjusted EBITDA by reportable segment is used by our management to measure and evaluate 
the internal operating performance of our reportable segments. It is also the basis for calculating certain management 
incentive compensation programs. We believe that this measurement is useful to investors as a way to analyze the 
underlying trends in our core business, including at the segment level, consistently across the periods presented and to 
evaluate performance under management incentive compensation programs. Adjusted EBITDA consists of Net (loss) 
income before Interest expense, net, (Benefit from) provision for income taxes and depreciation and amortization and 
eliminates (i) certain non-operating income or expense items, and (ii) impacts of certain non-cash, unusual or other 
items that are included in Net (loss) income and that we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating 
performance. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5. Segment and Geographic 
Information” for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by reportable segment to (Loss) income before income taxes.
North America
Total revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for North America were as follows:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Total revenues $ 1,877.1 $ 2,536.5 $ 1,500.2  (26) %  69 %
Adjusted EBITDA $ 949.2 $ 1,614.6 $ 1,028.5  (41) %  57 %
Total revenues were $1,877.1 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $2,536.5 million for fiscal year 2022. The decrease was 
primarily driven by lower demand for QuickVue and Sofia SARS Antigen assays, partially offset by incremental revenues of 
$433.8 million from the Combinations.
Total revenues were $2,536.5 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $1,500.2 million for fiscal year 2021. During fiscal year 
2022, the impact of the Combinations contributed $607.3 million to Total revenues. The remaining increase of $429.0 million 
was primarily driven by increased demand for QuickVue SARS Antigen assays and non-SARS related rapid tests, partially 
offset by a decrease in revenues for the Sofia SARS Antigen assay.
Adjusted EBITDA was $949.2 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $1,614.6 million for fiscal year 2022. The decrease 
was primarily driven by lower demand for QuickVue and Sofia SARS Antigen assays, partially offset by decreased distribution 
costs and approximately $160 million of incremental impact of the Combinations.
Adjusted EBITDA was $1,614.6 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $1,028.5 million for fiscal year 2021. During fiscal 
year 2022, the impact of the Combinations contributed $260.7 million to Adjusted EBITDA. The remaining increase of $325.4 
million was primarily driven by increased revenues, partially offset by increased distribution and selling costs.
58
EMEA
Total revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for EMEA were as follows:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change 
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Total revenues $ 327.3 $ 206.8 $ 69.6  58 %  197 %
Adjusted EBITDA $ 58.3 $ 31.7 $ 28.1  84 %  13 %
Total revenues were $327.3 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $206.8 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by incremental revenues of $110.1 million from the Combinations, partially offset by a decrease in Point of 
Care revenue.
Total revenues were $206.8 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $69.6 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations, which contributed $146.2 million to Total revenues, partially offset by 
lower Point of Care revenue due to lower BNP sales from the transition of the BNP Business to Beckman.
Adjusted EBITDA was $58.3 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $31.7 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by incremental revenues from the Combinations, partially offset by lower Point of Care revenue and increased 
selling and distribution costs.
Adjusted EBITDA was $31.7 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $28.1 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations, which contributed approximately $18 million to Adjusted EBITDA, 
partially offset by lower revenues and increased selling costs.
China
Total revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for China were as follows:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change 
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Total revenues $ 310.1 $ 220.0 $ 58.0  41 %  279 %
Adjusted EBITDA $ 129.1 $ 104.1 $ 24.1  24 %  332 %
Total revenues were $310.1 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $220.0 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by incremental revenues of $95.0 million from the Combinations, partially offset by lower Point of Care 
revenue, primarily related to decreased demand for QuickVue SARS Antigen assays.
Total revenues were $220.0 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $58.0 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations, which contributed $161.3 million to Total revenues.
Adjusted EBITDA was $129.1 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $104.1 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by approximately $29 million of incremental impact of the Combinations, partially offset by lower Point of 
Care revenue and a shift in product mix.
Adjusted EBITDA was $104.1 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $24.1 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations of approximately $81 million.
Other
Total revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for Other, which includes our Latin America, Japan and Asia Pacific operating segments, 
were as follows:
Fiscal Year Ended
(Dollars in millions) 2023 2022 2021
% Change
2023 vs. 2022
% Change 
2022 vs. 2021
Total revenues $ 483.3 $ 302.7 $ 70.8  60 %  328 %
Adjusted EBITDA $ 116.3 $ 92.7 $ 43.0  25 %  116 %
59
Total revenues were $483.3 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $302.7 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by incremental revenues of $177.1 million from the Combinations and higher Labs revenue, partially offset by 
lower Point of Care revenue.
Total revenues were $302.7 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $70.8 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations, which contributed $250.5 million to Total revenues, partially offset by 
lower Point of Care revenue, driven by lower demand for QuickVue SARS Antigen and Sofia assays.
Adjusted EBITDA was $116.3 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to $92.7 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was 
primarily driven by approximately $37 million of incremental impact of the Combinations, partially offset by lower Point of 
Care revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA was $92.7 million for fiscal year 2022, compared to $43.0 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase was 
primarily driven by the impact of the Combinations, which contributed approximately $63 million to Adjusted EBITDA, 
partially offset by lower revenues.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, the principal sources of liquidity consisted of the following:
(Dollars in millions)
December 31,
2023
January 1,
2023
Cash and cash equivalents $ 118.9 $ 292.9 
Marketable securities, current  48.4  52.1 
Marketable securities, non-current  7.4  21.0 
Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 174.7 $ 366.0 
Amount available to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility $ 787.1 $ 786.9 
Working capital including cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, current $ 476.7 $ 568.1 
As of December 31, 2023, we had $118.9 million in Cash and cash equivalents, a $174.0 million decrease from January 1, 
2023. Our cash requirements fluctuate as a result of numerous factors, including cash generated from operations, progress in 
R&D, capital expansion projects and acquisition and business development activities. We believe our organizational structure 
allows us the necessary flexibility to move funds throughout our subsidiaries to meet our operational working capital needs.
Our Credit Agreement consists of a $2,750.0 million Term Loan and an $800.0 million Revolving Credit Facility. As of 
December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, there were no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of 
December 31, 2023, letters of credit issued under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled $12.9 million, which reduced the 
available amount under the Revolving Credit Facility to $787.1 million. The Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility will 
mature on May 27, 2027. In fiscal year 2023, we made $226.7 million in payments on our Term Loan, including a voluntary 
prepayment of $20.0 million. Refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Borrowings” for 
further information.
On March 31, 2023, we entered into an amendment to our existing receivables purchase agreement (the “RPA”), by and among 
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics US FinanceCo I, LLC (“Ortho FinanceCo I”), as Seller, our wholly owned receivables financing 
subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Agent”), Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc., as the Master 
Servicer and as an Originator (“Ortho Inc.”), Quidel Corporation, as an Originator, and certain Purchasers. Under the RPA, as 
amended, Ortho FinanceCo I may sell receivables in amounts up to a $150.0 million limit, subject to certain conditions, 
including that, at any date of determination, the aggregate capital paid to Ortho FinanceCo I does not exceed a “capital coverage 
amount,” equal to an adjusted net receivables pool balance minus a required reserve. Ortho FinanceCo I has guaranteed the 
prompt payment of the sold receivables, and to secure the prompt payment and performance of such guaranteed obligations, 
Ortho FinanceCo I has granted a security interest to the Agent, for the benefit of the Purchasers, in all assets of Ortho 
FinanceCo I. Ortho Inc., in its capacity as Master Servicer under the RPA, is responsible for administering and collecting the 
receivables and has made customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities. We have also provided a 
performance guaranty for the benefit of Ortho FinanceCo I to cause the due and punctual performance by Ortho Inc. of its 
obligations as Master Servicer.
Our Stock Repurchase Program allows us to repurchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through August 17, 2024. 
The Stock Repurchase Program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the Stock Repurchase 
Program, shares of common stock may be repurchased using a variety of methods, including privately negotiated and/or open 
market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act, as part of accelerated stock 
repurchases and other methods. The timing, manner, price and amount of any repurchases are determined by us in our 
60
discretion and depend on a variety of factors, including legal requirements, price and economic and market conditions. For the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, we repurchased 120,000 shares of outstanding common stock under the Stock 
Repurchase Program for approximately $7.2 million. The repurchased shares were retired and returned to the status of 
authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $218.4 million available 
under the Stock Repurchase Program. Refer to Part II, Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder 
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for further information.
Our investment portfolio includes marketable debt securities, which are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest 
rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our investment policy establishes limits on the amount and time to maturity of 
investments with any institution. The investment policy also requires that investments are only entered into with corporate and 
financial institutions that meet high credit quality standards. Refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary 
Data—Note 13. Fair Value Measurements.”
Capital Expenditures
Annual capital expenditures, net of proceeds from government assistance allocated to fixed assets, were approximately 
$196 million, $123 million and $256 million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We continue to make capital 
expenditures in connection with the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities and other facility-related activities.
Cash Flow Summary
Fiscal Year Ended
(In millions) 2023 2022 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 280.2 $ 885.3 $ 805.9 
Net cash used for investing activities  (187.6)  (1,644.2)  (319.5) 
Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities  (265.8)  252.0  (173.1) 
Effect of exchange rates on cash  (1.2)  (2.0)  (0.4) 
Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (174.4) $ (508.9) $ 312.9 
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2023
Cash provided by operating activities was $280.2 million for fiscal year 2023, and reflected a net loss of $10.1 million and non-
cash adjustments of $485.2 million, primarily associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense 
and accretion of interest on deferred consideration. In addition, we benefited from collections on accounts receivables, which 
contributed $160.0 million to Cash provided by operating activities, offset by other changes in working capital, including 
$211.6 million of cash outflows for inventories.
Cash used for investing activities was $187.6 million for fiscal year 2023, and was primarily related to $209.3 million in 
purchases of property, equipment, investments and intangibles. We also purchased $60.1 million and sold $78.3 million of 
marketable securities during fiscal year 2023. 
Cash used for financing activities was $265.8 million for fiscal year 2023, and was primarily related to payments on long-term 
borrowings of $228.0 million, payments of deferred consideration of $30.3 million and payments of tax withholdings related to 
vesting of stock-based awards of $13.5 million.
Fiscal Year Ended January 1, 2023
Cash provided by operating activities was $885.3 million for fiscal year 2022, and reflected net income of $548.7 million and 
non-cash adjustments of $389.8 million, primarily associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation 
expense, deferred income taxes, loss on extinguishment of debt and the unwind of the inventory fair value step up initially 
recorded in connection with the Combinations. In addition, we benefited from collections on accounts receivables, which 
contributed $150.2 million to Cash provided by operating activities, offset by net cash outflows related to inventories, prepaid 
and other current and non-current assets and liabilities as well as income taxes payable and other current and non-current 
liabilities.
Cash used for investing activities was $1,644.2 million for fiscal year 2022, and was primarily related to the Combinations. We 
purchased $140.9 million of property, equipment, investments and intangibles and received $18.4 million of proceeds from 
government assistance allocated to fixed assets. We also purchased $63.7 million and sold $53.4 million of marketable 
securities during fiscal year 2022. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2. Business 
Combination” for further discussion regarding the Combinations.
61
Cash provided by financing activities was $252.0 million for fiscal year 2022, and was primarily related to proceeds from long-
term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs of $2,734.5 million, payments on long-term borrowings and extinguishment costs of 
$2,388.3 million, repurchases of common stock of $74.3 million and payments of $37.7 million for contingent and deferred 
consideration.
Fiscal Year Ended January 2, 2022
Cash provided by operating activities was $805.9 million for fiscal year 2021, and reflected net income of $704.2 million and 
non-cash adjustments of $104.5 million, primarily associated with depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation 
expense and accretion of interest on deferred consideration. Partially offsetting these inflows was a net working capital use of 
cash of $30.7 million, primarily driven by an increase in product inventory associated with the increased demand due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic and a decrease in income taxes payable, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable.
Cash used for investing activities was $319.5 million for fiscal year 2021, and was primarily related to investments in 
manufacturing equipment, building improvements, Sofia, Solana and Triage instruments available for lease and scientific 
equipment, partially offset by government proceeds received to fund such investments. Additionally, we purchased $67.4 
million of available-for-sale securities and sold $3.8 million of our available-for-sale securities during 2021.
Cash used for financing activities was $173.1 million for fiscal year 2021, and was primarily related to repurchases of common 
stock of $103.5 million, payments of tax withholdings for vesting of stock-based awards of $37.1 million, and the payment of 
deferred and contingent consideration of $39.8 million, partially offset by proceeds of $7.6 million from the issuance of 
common stock under the ESPP (as defined in this Annual Report) and pursuant to stock option exercises. Refer to Part II, Item 
8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10. Stockholders’ Equity.”
Liquidity Outlook
Short-term Liquidity Outlook
Our primary source of liquidity, other than our holdings of Cash and cash equivalents, has been cash flows from operations. 
Cash generated from operations provides us with the financial flexibility we need to meet normal operating, investing and 
financing needs. We anticipate that our current Cash and cash equivalents, together with cash provided by operating activities 
and amounts available under our Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our near-term capital and operating needs 
for at least the next 12 months.
Normal operating needs include the planned costs to operate our business, including amounts required to fund working capital, 
R&D and capital expenditures. Our primary short-term needs for capital, which are subject to change, include expenditures 
related to:
• interest on and repayments of our long-term borrowings and lease obligations;
• acquisitions of property, equipment and other fixed assets in support of our manufacturing facility expansions;
• the continued advancement of R&D efforts;
• our integration of the Ortho business arising from the Combinations;
• support of commercialization efforts related to our current and future products, including support of our direct sales 
force and field support resources; and
• potential strategic acquisitions and investments.
Due to the risks inherent in the product development process, we are unable to estimate with meaningful certainty the costs we 
will incur in the continued development of our product candidates for commercialization. Our R&D costs may be substantial as 
we move product candidates into preclinical and clinical trials and advance our existing product candidates into later stages of 
development.
The primary purposes of our capital expenditures are to  invest in manufacturing capacity expansion, acquire certain of our  
instruments, acquire scientific equipment, purchase or develop IT and implement facility improvements. We plan to fund the 
capital expenditures with the cash on our balance sheet.
We are focused on expanding the number of instruments placed in the field and solidifying long-term contractual relationships 
with customers. In order to achieve this goal, in certain jurisdictions where it is permitted, we have leveraged a reagent rental 
model that has been recognized as more attractive to certain customers. In this model, we lease, rather than sell, instruments to 
our customers. Over the term of the contract, the purchase price of the instrument is embedded in the price of the assays and 
reagents. Going forward, we intend to increase the number of reagent rental placements in developed markets, a strategy that 
we believe is beneficial to our commercial goals because it lowers our customers’ upfront capital costs and therefore allows 
purchasing decisions to be made at the lab manager level. For these same reasons, the reagent rental model also benefits our 
commercial strategy in emerging markets. We believe that the shift in our sales strategy will grow our installed base, thereby 
62
increasing sales of higher-margin assays, reagents and other consumables over the life of the customer contracts and enhancing 
our recurring revenue and cash flows. During fiscal year 2023, we transferred $154.6 million of instrument inventories from 
Inventories to Property, plant and equipment, net, further increasing our investment in property, plant and equipment.
Long-term Liquidity Outlook
Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds to service any long-term debt outstanding and to fund 
working capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on many factors, including: 
• our ability to successfully integrate the recently acquired Ortho business and realize cross-selling revenue synergies;
• our ability to realize revenue growth from our new technologies and create innovative products in our markets;
• outstanding debt and covenant restrictions;
• our ability to leverage our operating expenses to realize operating profits as we grow revenue;
• competing technological and market developments; and
• our entry into strategic collaborations with other companies or acquisitions of other companies or technologies to 
enhance or complement our product and service offerings.
In January 2023, we entered into a lease for warehouse space in the U.S. that has not yet commenced, with total lease payments 
of approximately $36 million. This lease is expected to commence during the first half of 2024 with a lease term of five years.
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. 
Information regarding our obligations relating to debt, income taxes, lease arrangements, purchase obligations and licensing 
arrangements are provided in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Borrowings,” “—Note 6. 
Income Taxes,” “—Note 9. Leases” and “—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively.
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are material or reasonably likely to become material to our financial 
condition or results of operations.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Information about recently adopted and proposed accounting pronouncements is included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial 
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”
Critical Accounting Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“GAAP”). The 
preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Our critical accounting estimates are those that significantly 
affect our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often 
because of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of this uncertainty, 
actual results may vary from these estimates.
We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the 
preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reserve for Contractual Rebates
We record revenues primarily from product sales. These revenues are recorded net of rebates that are estimated at the time of 
sale, and are largely driven by various customer program offerings, including special pricing agreements and promotions. 
Rebates are calculated based on historical experience, estimated distributor inventory balances, contractual and statutory 
requirements and other relevant information, and are recorded as a reduction of sales. These rebates are presented as either an 
offset to trade accounts receivable or a liability based on forms of settlement. The allowance for contractual rebates involves 
estimating adjustments to revenue based on a high volume of data including inputs from third-party sources. In addition, the 
determination of such adjustments includes estimating rebate percentages which are dependent on estimated end-user sales mix 
and customer contractual terms, which vary across customers, the related balance of which was $31.3 million of our rebate 
reserves at December 31, 2023. Our total rebate reserve was $75.6 million at December 31, 2023.
63
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The useful lives of intangible assets with definite lives are based on the expected number of years the asset will generate 
revenue or otherwise be used by us and the related amortization is based on the straight-line method. Goodwill, which has an 
indefinite life, is not amortized but instead is tested at least annually for impairment, or more frequently when events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Examples of such events or circumstances include:
• the asset’s ability to continue to generate income from operations and positive cash flow in future periods;
• any volatility or significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization compared to our net book value;
• loss of legal ownership or title to an asset;
• significant changes in our strategic business objectives and utilization of our assets; and
• the impact of significant negative industry or economic trends.
If a change were to occur in any of the above-mentioned factors or estimates, the likelihood of a material change in our reported 
results would increase.
For goodwill, the entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the 
quantitative goodwill impairment test. The quantitative impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with the 
carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is considered 
not impaired; otherwise, goodwill is impaired and the loss is recorded. For our annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill as 
of October 2, 2023, we bypassed the qualitative assessment and proceeded directly to the quantitative goodwill impairment test 
for all reporting units. This quantitative analysis required us to make estimates and assumptions in order to calculate the fair 
value of our reporting units. We utilized the values separately derived from both income and market approach valuation 
techniques to develop an overall estimate of reporting unit fair values. Under the income approach, we calculated the fair value 
of our reporting units based on estimated future discounted cash flows which required significant assumptions surrounding 
projected revenue growth rates, projected EBITDA margins and discount rates. Under the market approach, we estimated the 
fair value based on market multiples of our revenue and EBITDA. In all instances, the estimated fair values of our reporting 
units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment. The excess of the estimated fair value 
over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for our North America, 
EMEA, Latin America, Japan and Asia Pacific reporting units as of the testing date ranged from approximately 8% to 70%. The 
excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value for our China reporting unit was approximately 170%. To evaluate the 
sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 5% decrease 
to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on 
this hypothetical 5% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying 
value for the respective reporting unit) for each of our reporting units ranged from approximately 3% to approximately 160%.
Income Taxes
Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, current tax assets and liabilities, deferred tax 
assets and liabilities, and our future taxable income, both as a whole and in various tax jurisdictions, for purposes of assessing 
our ability to realize future benefit from our deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance may be established to reduce our 
deferred tax assets to the amount that is considered more likely than not to be realized through the generation of future taxable 
income and other tax planning opportunities. As of December 31, 2023, we had a valuation allowance of $274.7 million, which 
represents the portion of our deferred tax assets that management believes is not more likely than not to be realized. We will 
continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets by evaluating both positive and negative 
evidence that may exist.
We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for 
recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be 
sustained during an audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure 
the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe that we 
have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcome of examinations 
by tax authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data—Note 6. Income Taxes” for more information on income taxes.
Accounting for Business Combinations
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the cost of an acquired business is assigned to the tangible and identifiable 
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess 
fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date, using a variety of methods including, but not limited to, an income 
64
approach and a market approach, such as the estimation of future cash flows of the acquired business and current selling prices 
of similar assets. These valuations require us to make estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
Fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, in-process research and development 
(“IPR&D”), and contingent payments, are measured based on the assumptions and estimations with regards to variable factors 
such as the amount and timing of future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, appropriate risk-adjusted discount 
rates, nonperformance risk, or other factors that market participants would consider. Upon acquisition, we determine 