S-1
1
cerebras-sx1april2026.htm
S-1
Cerebras - S-1 (April 2026)
Table of Contents
As filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 17, 2026.
Registration No. 333-
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM S-1
REGISTRATION STATEMENT
UNDER
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Cerebras Systems Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
3674
81-2256092
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
(Primary Standard Industrial
Classification Code Number)
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification Number)
1237 E. Arques Avenue
Sunnyvale, California 94085
(650) 933-4980
(Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of registrant's principal executive offices)
Andrew D. Feldman
Chief Executive Officer and President
1237 E. Arques Avenue
Sunnyvale, California 94085
(650) 933-4980
(Name, address, including zip code, and telephone number, including area code, of agent for service)
Copies to&#58;
Tad J. Freese
Sarah B. Axtell
Zuzanna V. Gruca
Latham & Watkins LLP
140 Scott Drive
Menlo Park, California 94025
(650) 328-4600
Shirley X. Li
Christopher Ing
Cerebras Systems Inc.
1237 E. Arques Avenue
Sunnyvale, California 94085
(650) 933-4980
Alan F. Denenberg
Elizabeth W. LeBow
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
900 Middlefield Road
Redwood City, California 94063
(650) 752-2000
Approximate date of commencement of proposed sale to the public&#58; As soon as practicable after the effective date of this registration statement.
If any of the securities being registered on this Form are to be offered on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, check the following
box. &#9744;
If this Form is filed to register additional securities for an offering pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, please check the following box and list the Securities Act
registration statement number of the earlier effective registration statement for the same offering. &#9744;
If this Form is a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(c) under the Securities Act, check the following box and list the Securities Act registration statement number
of the earlier effective registration statement for the same offering. &#9744;
If this Form is a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(d) under the Securities Act, check the following box and list the Securities Act registration statement number
of the earlier effective registration statement for the same offering. &#9744;
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company.
See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer
&#9744;
Accelerated filer
&#9744;
Non-accelerated filer
&#9746;
Smaller reporting company
&#9744;
Emerging growth company
&#9746;
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial
accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act. &#9744;
The Registrant hereby amends this registration statement on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay its effective date until the registrant shall file a further
amendment which specifically states that this registration statement shall thereafter become effective in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, or until the
registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Securities and Exchange Commission, acting pursuant to said Section 8(a), may determine.
Table of Contents
The information in this preliminary prospectus is not complete and may be changed. We may not sell these securities until the registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This preliminary prospectus is not an offer to sell these securities and we are not soliciting offers to buy these securities
in any jurisdiction where the offer or sale is not permitted .
PRELIMINARY PROSPECTUS (Subject to Completion)
Issued , 2026
Sh ares
Cerebras Systems Inc.
Class A Common Stock
Cerebras Systems Inc. is offering shares of its Class A common stock. This is our initial public offering and no public market currently exists for
shares of our Class A common stock. We anticipate that the initial public offering price per share of our Class A common stock will be between $ and
$ .
We have applied to list our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "CBRS," and this offering is contingent upon the
listing of our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market .
Following completion of this offering, we will have three classes of authorized common stock&#58; Class A common stock, Class B common stock, and Class N
common stock. The rights of the holders of Class A common stock, Class B common stock, and Class N common stock are identical, except with respect to
voting and conversion rights. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 20 votes and is
convertible at any time into one share of Class A common stock. Each share of Class N common stock is non-voting and is convertible into one share of
Class A common stock. Outstanding shares of Class B common stock will represent approximately % of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock
immediately following this offering. See the section titled "Description of Capital Stock" for additional information.
We are an "emerging growth company" as defined under the U.S. federal securities laws and, as such, may elect to comply with certain reduced public
company reporting requirements for this and future filings.
Investing in our Class A common stock involves risks. See the section titled " Risk Factors " beginning on page 22 to read about factors you should consider
before deciding to invest in our Class A common stock.
PRICE $ A SHARE
Price to Public
Underwriting
Discounts and
Commissions (1)
Proceeds to
Cerebras (2)
Per Share ..................................................................................................................................................
$
$
$
Total ..........................................................................................................................................................
$
$
$
_______________
(1) See the section titled "Underwriters" for a description of the compensation payable to the underwriters.
At our request, the underwriters have reserved up to % of the shares of Class A common stock offered by this prospectus for sale at the initial public
offering price through a directed share program to certain persons identified by our management and certain long-tenured employees, which may include
parties with whom we have a business relationship and friends and family of management and such employees . See the section titled "Underwriters--Directed
Share Program" for additional information .
We will grant the underwriters the right to purchase up to an additional shares of our Class A common stock from us to cover over-allotments, if any,
at the initial public offering price less the underwriting discount.
The Securities and Exchange Commission and state securities regulators have not approved or disapproved these securities or determined if this prospectus is
truthful or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
The underwriters expect to deliver the shares against payment on , 2026.
MORGAN STANLEY
CITIGROUP
BARCLAYS
UBS INVESTMENT BANK
MIZUHO
TD COWEN
NEEDHAM & COMPANY
CRAIG-HALLUM
WEDBUSH SECURITIES
ROSENBLATT
ACADEMY SECURITIES
Prospectus dated , 2026
i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Founders Letter ............................................
iii
Glossary of Certain Terms ...........................
vii
Prospectus Summary ....................................
1
Risk Factors ..................................................
22
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements .................................................
78
Market and Industry Data .............................
80
Use of Proceeds ............................................
81
Dividend Policy ............................................
82
Capitalization ...............................................
83
Dilution ........................................................
87
Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of
Operations .................................................
90
Business .......................................................
111
Management .................................................
146
Page
Executive and Director Compensation .........
154
Certain Relationships and Related Party
Transactions ..............................................
168
Principal Stockholders .................................
173
Description of Capital Stock ........................
178
Shares Eligible for Future Sale ....................
187
Material U.S. Federal Income Tax
Consequences to Non-U.S. Holders .........
194
Underwriters .................................................
198
Legal Matters ...............................................
211
Change in Independent Accountant .............
211
Experts .........................................................
211
Where You Can Find Additional
Information ...............................................
212
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
F-1
Through and including , 2026 (the 25th day after the date of this prospectus), all dealers that
buy, sell, or trade shares of our Class A common stock, whether or not participating in this offering, may be
required to deliver a prospectus. This delivery requirement is in addition to the obligation of dealers to
deliver a prospectus when acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold allotments or subscriptions.
As used in this prospectus, unless the context otherwise requires, references to "Cerebras Systems," "Cerebras,"
the "company," "we," "us," "our," and similar terms refer to Cerebras Systems Inc. and, where appropriate, its
subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
"Cerebras," "Cerebras Systems," the Cerebras logos, and other trade names, trademarks, or service marks of
Cerebras appearing in this prospectus are the property of Cerebras Systems Inc. Other trade names, trademarks, or
service marks appearing in this prospectus are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, trade
names, trademarks, and service marks referred to in this prospectus appear without the &#174;, &#8482;, and SM symbols, but
those references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable
law, our rights or that the applicable owner will not assert its rights, to these trade names, trademarks, and service
marks.
Numerical figures included in this prospectus have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly,
numerical figures shown as totals in various tables may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures that precede
them.
References to www.cerebras.ai in this prospectus are inactive textual references only, and the information
contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this prospectus.
We have not, and the underwriters have not, authorized anyone to provide you any information or to make any
representations other than those contained in this prospectus or in any free writing prospectus prepared by or on
behalf of us or to which we have referred you. Neither we nor the underwriters take responsibility for, or provide
any assurance as to the reliability of, any other information others may give you. This prospectus is an offer to sell
only the shares offered hereby, and only under circumstances and in jurisdictions where it is lawful to do so. We are
not, and the underwriters are not, making an offer to sell these securities in any jurisdiction where the offer or sale is
not permitted. The information contained in this prospectus is accurate only as of the date of this prospectus,
ii
regardless of the time of delivery of this prospectus or any sale of the shares of our Class A common stock. Our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may have changed since that date.
For investors outside the United States &#58; We have not, and the underwriters have not, done anything that would
permit this offering or the possession or distribution of this prospectus or any free writing prospectus in connection
with this offering in any jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required, other than in the United States.
Persons outside the United States who come into possession of this prospectus must inform themselves about, and
observe any restrictions relating to, the offering of the shares of our Class A common stock and the distribution of
this prospectus outside the United States. See the section titled "Underwriters" for additional information.
iii
Table of Contents
FOUNDERS LETTER
In 2015, we saw AI on the horizon and knew it would consume vast amounts of compute.
AI was a new and unusual workload. And, for computer architects, new workloads create opportunities by forcing
tectonic market shifts.
The founders made two fundamental bets.
The first bet&#58; that existing general-purpose processors would not be sufficient, and that what has always been true
throughout the history of compute would also be true for AI - that transformative compute workloads require
purpose-built silicon. This is what PCs did for x86, graphics did for GPUs, and mobile did for ARM.
The second bet&#58; that modifying existing compute architectures would not realize AI's potential. We would need to
build a new computer architecture from first principles, optimized in every way for AI.
Both bets were contrarian. And both turned out to be right.
Bigger is Better, Many Times Better
At a computational level, graphics is a parallelism-bound problem and mobile is a power-bound problem. But AI is a
communication-bound problem.
The faster compute communicates with memory, and the faster compute communicates with other compute, the
faster and smarter the AI, and the better the user experience.
The enemy of speed is communication latency. And since communication is thousands of times faster on-chip, than
across chips, the best way to reduce latency is to keep communication on-chip.
Our answer&#58; build the largest commercial chip in the history of the computer industry. We used the entire wafer for
one chip&#58; a technique called wafer-scale integration.
Wafer-scale integration allowed us to bring together quantities of compute and memory never before assembled on a
single commercial chip and deliver AI at previously unimaginable speeds. We could avoid the latency and the
power-draw induced by the traditional approach of chopping up the AI problem and spreading it across lots of little
chips.
It was a logical approach in principle, but it was also a daunting challenge in practice. Wafer-scale integration was
one of the holy grails of computer architecture. Every previous effort to commercialize it had failed.
We had to prove it was possible&#58; to design it, fabricate it, yield it, power it, and run production workloads on it. This
was a complex, multi-dimensional technical challenge&#58; one that cut across chip design, system design, high
performance software, and AI algorithms.
The Grind
When we set out to do it, nobody knew how to make it work.
Nobody knew how to yield a chip 58 times larger than the leading GPU . Nobody knew how to deliver power to a
chip the size of a dinner plate without melting the motherboard. Nobody knew how to package such a big chip
without cracking it. Nobody knew how to cool a chip of this size, with air or water, without the coolant getting warm
before it reached the other side. Nobody knew, and we didn't know.
iv
Table of Contents
Many pointed out challenges they said were impossible to solve. But ironically, those weren't the hardest challenges
we had to solve. The hardest challenges were ones nobody had ever seen, because no one had ever progressed that
far.
Fundamental invention is profoundly difficult. We failed for a long time.
But we believe in fearless engineering combined with relentless drive. It's not just our culture. It is who we are. We
attacked the unknown with a disciplined methodology&#58; first principal analysis, experimentation, failure, failure
analysis. Rinse and repeat.
We believe that enduring moats are built by solving hard technical problems with novel solutions. Wafer-scale
integration is one such moat that took a decade of invention and engineering to achieve.
The Wrong Time
We delivered our first systems in 2020 and the second generation in 2022. We had built something extraordinary,
but the market wasn't ready. A few visionary customers in supercompute and life sciences saw the potential, but to
most of the world, the benefits were not immediately apparent.
AI was nascent. It was raw and unproven. Training was time-consuming, a black art, and the domain of a select few.
GPUs were not yet the bottleneck. And our solutions struggled to find a home.
Meeting the Moment
Change arrived with ChatGPT. Suddenly everyone was talking about AI, and entrepreneurs were extending the art
of the possible. By early 2025, AI was smart enough to be valuable, and people were using AI everywhere.
Inference usage exploded.
Suddenly, everyone remembered the lesson from Google search&#58; speed produces more satisfied and more frequent
users, while even tiny delays significantly reduce user satisfaction, search frequency, and search revenue.
The market had shifted. Everyone realized that fast AI is more useful than slow AI. By the end of 2025, it was clear&#58;
fast inference was powering the highest-value workloads. Fast inference was making engineers more productive
because fast AI coding agents could write code, edit it, test it, and get a product to market more quickly. Fast AI
made lawyers, analysts, bankers, doctors, and researchers more productive than their counterparts waiting on slow
insights.
And so the flywheel started&#58; as fast AI produced better answers in less time, users would do more with it, stay
longer, and run higher-value workloads. Cerebras's original vision to accelerate AI with custom silicon, systems,
and software finally met a market that urgently needed--and demanded--the fast AI our innovations make possible.
Our speed separates us from other AI infrastructure players.
For many workloads, Cerebras is up to 15 times faster than leading GPU-based solutions as benchmarked on leading
open-source models. In some more exotic workloads, we have been more than 1,000 times faster. When customers
experienced that speed for themselves, they knew they had to have it&#59; we won new customers, and existing
customers reordered, then reordered again.
Smarter models combined with fast inference makes AI more productive. And since tokens are how AI converts
compute into intelligence, token consumption is growing exponentially. And because Cerebras generates tokens
faster, we believe we are extraordinarily well-positioned to win in this market.
v
Table of Contents
Selected by the Leaders
In January 2026, we announced a multi-year deal with OpenAI valued at more than $20 billion dollars. OpenAI
has agreed to deploy 750 megawatts of Cerebras's high-speed AI compute, and OpenAI and Cerebras have agreed to
co-design future models for future Cerebras hardware.
In March 2026, we started a multi-year partnership with AWS to bring fast inference to an even bigger scale
through global distribution. This is planned to give every startup, AI native, and enterprise company easy access to
Cerebras's blisteringly fast inference.
We firmly believe that once you go fast, you can never go back. How much would we need to pay you to go back to
slow internet&#63;
The explosion in AI usage profoundly changed the market. Cerebras was ready&#58; meeting the changing needs of our
customers and quickly adapting our business model. We made it easy for our customers to consume AI compute. We
were among the first semi-conductor companies to have a cloud business. We deliver hardware on-premises to
customers concerned about data security and sovereignty. And we reach other customers through the cloud - both
the Cerebras cloud and soon the AWS cloud. This allows us to reach customers who want to rent compute by month,
year, or to pay by the token, and provides Cerebras with an attractive mix of recurring revenue as well as lumpier
hardware revenue.
The Future
As we look forward, we will continue to engage in fearless engineering aimed at solving the hardest technical
problems - the ones that create fundamental differentiation, customer value, and durable moats.
We believe that shareholder value comes from doing the things customers want, but others cannot do. We will focus
relentlessly on these items, make bold decisions, and weigh tradeoffs in favor of long-term value creation.
We're proud of our accomplishments, and we have inventions underway that build on and extend our advantages.
The fundamental building blocks in computer architecture are calculation (cores), the storage of results (memory),
and the movements of results to where they are needed (communication). Wafer-scale integration has provided a
platform for more cores than any previous commercialized processor. It allows us to use memory in ways that are
foreclosed to traditional sized processors. Our inventions are blurring the lines that have traditionally forced
tradeoffs between memory capacity and speed. And the massive size of our processor serves as a foundation for
pioneering communication techniques that are only available to wafer scale solutions.
Smarter models and faster inference are transforming entire sectors of the economy. The way we write software has
changed forever. But we believe we have yet to fully contemplate the growing landscape for autonomous vehicles,
robotics, and other latency-sensitive applications. These applications will continue to push fast inference demand,
present novel challenges, and take the industry in new directions.
The AI market is moving extraordinarily quickly, and we are well-positioned to anticipate its twists and turns.
Our insights are now informed by a decade of pioneering invention, unique expertise in technologies that underpin
fast AI, learning from our customers, and deploying some of the largest AI clusters in the world. Our partnerships
provide not only visibility into the future, but also a chance to co-design hardware with those creating it.
We invite you to join us on this extraordinary journey through a technological revolution more profound than any
that has come before.
Nothing excites us more than the future of AI.
vi
Table of Contents
We are grateful to our families for their patience, our team for their passion and hard work, our investors for their
support and encouragement, and our customers and partners for their trust. To all those who have been with us
through the first chapter in Cerebras's life, we say thank you.
And it is with great pride we set off on the next chapter.
Andrew, Gary, Sean, Michael, and JP
vii
Table of Contents
GLOSSARY OF CERTAIN TERMS
The following are abbreviations, acronyms, and definitions of certain terms used in this prospectus&#58;
&#8226; "AI" stands for artificial intelligence. AI includes GenAI, machine learning, and other artificial intelligence
tools, systems, products, and related technologies.
&#8226; "API" stands for Application Programming Interface. An API is a set of rules, protocols, and tools that
allow different software applications to communicate and interact with each other.
&#8226; "Chassis" means the metal frame that supports and houses the components of an electronic device,
including the circuits that connect the components.
&#8226; "CPU" stands for Central Processing Unit. A CPU is the brain of a computer, responsible for executing
instructions and carrying out computations. It is a complex IC that fetches, decodes, and executes
instructions, typically from main memory under the control of software programs.
&#8226; "Customers" refers to our end customers. When the context requires, we may use "end customers," which
include hyperscalers, foundation model labs, AI-native and digital-native businesses, Fortune 500
companies, and Sovereign AI initiatives . When used in our audited consolidated financial statements
included elsewhere in this prospectus, "customers" means parties we directly invoice for products or
services.
&#8226; "GenAI" stands for generative AI. GenAI is a type of AI technology that can produce various types of
content, including text, imagery, audio, and synthetic data.
&#8226; "GPU" stands for Graphics Processing Unit. GPU is a specialized IC with a high degree of parallelism used
to accelerate the rendering of complex graphics onto a screen. Due to their ability to perform numerous
computations simultaneously, GPUs outperform CPUs on certain tasks and are used for scientific
computing and accelerating AI workloads, such as training and inference workloads of large language
models.
&#8226; "HBM" stands for High Bandwidth Memory. HBM is a type of computer memory designed to provide high
bandwidth and low latency for GPUs, other AI accelerators, and CPUs. HBM is significantly faster and
more expensive than traditional DRAM memory and is typically integrated within the IC package.
&#8226; "Hyperscalers" means large technology companies that offer highly scalable cloud computing services,
utilizing extensive data centers. They offer a wide range of dynamically-provisioned services, including
computing infrastructure, software platforms, and, increasingly, AI model training and inferencing. These
services are available on an as-needed basis, managed and scaled via software by the users.
&#8226; "IC" stands for an Integrated Circuit. IC is a miniaturized electronic circuit that combines multiple
transistor components and other elements into a single small package. ICs are the fundamental building
blocks of modern electronics, and they are used in a wide variety of applications, including computers,
servers, networking equipment, smartphones, automobiles, and medical devices.
&#8226; "Inference" means the process of using a trained machine learning model to make predictions or decisions
based on new data. It involves applying the patterns and knowledge the model learned during training to
analyze and interpret new, unseen inputs.
&#8226; "IT" stands for information technology.
&#8226; "LLM" stands for Large Language Model. LLMs are a class of artificial intelligence models that are trained
on vast amounts of text data to understand, interpret, and generate human-like language.
viii
Table of Contents
&#8226; "Node," in the context of chip manufacturing, is used as shorthand for "process node," which refers to
specific semiconductor manufacturing processes corresponding to different circuit generations and
architectures, for example, 14 nanometer and 5 nanometer nodes.
&#8226; "Rack" means an open-frame cabinet of standard dimensions used to organize and house servers,
networking equipment, power supplies, and other IT hardware. A data center typically houses thousands of
racks interconnected by networking switches typically using Ethernet protocol.
&#8226; "Sovereign AI" refers to AI systems that are developed, controlled, and managed by a particular nation or
established in furtherance of such nation's public interests.
&#8226; "SRAM" stands for Static Random-Access Memory. SRAM is a type of memory that stores data within
transistors so long as power is being supplied. Compared to DRAM (Dynamic Random-Access Memory),
another common type of RAM used in computers, SRAM is faster and consumes less power during active
use. However, it is more expensive and takes up more space than DRAM due to its complex architecture.
SRAM is often used on-chip in processors for cache memory because of its speed and efficiency, providing
quick access to frequently used data.
&#8226; "Tape-out" is the final phase of the chip design process for integrated circuits, where the completed design
is released to manufacturing.
&#8226; "Training" refers to the process of teaching an artificial intelligence model to make accurate predictions or
decisions by feeding it large amounts of data and adjusting its internal parameters based on identified
patterns. During training, the AI model uses algorithms to learn from the input data, iteratively refining its
accuracy by adapting its behavior to minimize errors.
&#8226; "Wafer" means a thin slice of a semiconductor material, typically made of silicon, upon which integrated
circuits are fabricated. Wafers serve as the foundation for the production of electronic components,
including microchips and microprocessors.
1
Table of Contents
PROSPECTUS SUMMARY
This summary highlights selected information contained elsewhere in this prospectus. This summary does not
contain all of the information that you should consider before deciding to invest in our Class A common stock. You
should read this entire prospectus carefully, including the sections titled "Risk Factors," "Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," and "Business," and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
this prospectus before making an investment decision.
Overview
We are building the fastest AI infrastructure in the world.
In AI, speed is critical to win. Speed improves user engagement, expands product capabilities, can lower
operating costs, and opens new markets. It shortens iteration cycles for engineers, researchers, and professionals
across industries, allowing them to be more productive. Speed unlocks new applications and new industries.
In technology, "speed unlocking value" is a pattern that has repeated itself over the past 30 years. Faster
solutions are used more often and for more demanding tasks. For example, the speed of broadband transformed the
internet from static pages into real-time applications, enabling new products and industries. Similarly, in search,
Google showed that even short delays in delivering answers significantly reduced usage and engagement.
AI repeats this pattern. As AI has moved from novelty to necessity, AI work has grown more demanding, and
speed has become a bottleneck. Faster AI does more work in less time, providing better answers sooner.
Our solutions are built for speed. Cerebras Inference delivers answers up to 15 times faster than leading GPU-
based solutions as benchmarked on leading open-source models. Similarly, many customers have achieved more
than 10 times faster training time-to-solution compared to leading GPU systems of the same generation.
These performance breakthroughs are the result of our core innovation&#58; the world's first and only
commercialized wafer-scale processor. Called the Wafer-Scale Engine ("WSE"), our processor is 58 times larger
than NVIDIA's B200 chip and has 2,625 times more memory bandwidth than NVIDIA's B200 package, which
contains two individual chips. To build the WSE, we solved the 75-year-old compute industry problem of wafer-
scale integration to produce, yield, power, and cool a chip of this size. This size is what enables our incredible AI
speeds. By bringing massive compute and memory onto a single piece of silicon and integrating it into a purpose-
built system and software stack, we deliver exceptional AI speed for customers on premises and via the cloud.
Our strategic partners and customers include hyperscalers, foundation model labs, AI-native and digital-native
businesses, enterprises, and Sovereign AI initiatives. OpenAI, the world's leading foundation model lab, selected us
to be its fast inference solution. With Cerebras, OpenAI's Codex-Spark users turn ideas into working software in
seconds. Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), the world's leading hyperscale cloud, has signed a binding term sheet
with us to become the first hyperscale r to deploy Cerebras in its own data centers, providing massive distribution to
a broad base of enterprise customers. Our customers use Cerebras solutions to run applications that demand speed,
scale, and intelligence. This work includes training and serving large frontier models with near-instant responses,
processing massive datasets in real time, and generating full-stack applications in a single step. Once customers
adopt fast inference, user expectations for interactivity rise, and engineering teams shift from latency optimizations
to other work, making it difficult to return to slower inference.
We deliver our solutions to customers in several different ways. Organizations that require full data and
infrastructure control can purchase Cerebras AI supercomputers for on-premises deployments. Customers seeking
cloud flexibility can access Cerebras compute through consumption-based models on Cerebras Cloud or through
partner clouds. For example, our high-speed inference services are available through partners, including AWS
Marketplace, Microsoft Marketplace, IBM watsonx Model Gateway, Vercel AI Gateway, OpenRouter, and Hugging
Face, enabling seamless adoption within existing workflows.
2
Table of Contents
Our ability to deliver differentiated performance has made us a strategic partner to many of our largest
customers. Beyond providing compute infrastructure, we provide AI services to our customers to co-develop
solutions to address their most complex challenges, from training state-of-the-art models to optimizing deployments
for each application's needs. These partnerships have expanded over time&#59; notably, our top ten customers by year-to-
date revenue through December 31, 2025 increased their aggregate spend with us by approximately 80% within 12
months of their initial purchase, often including contracts for co-development.
AI is one of the fastest growing technologies in history. We believe that our high-speed AI solutions give us a
meaningful competitive advantage in this market. We believe that further adoption of AI, accelerated by increased
penetration, more frequent usage, and more complex applications, will continue to rapidly expand the market.
According to IDC, investments in AI solutions and services are projected to yield a global cumulative impact of
$22.3 trillion by 2030, representing approximately 3.7% of the global gross domestic product ("GDP"). The
combined market for AI training infrastructure and our addressable market within AI inference is estimated to be
$251 billion in 2025 and is expected to grow to $672 billion by 2029--a 28% CAGR, according to Bloomberg
Intelligence. This estimate indicates that AI inference will grow more than twice as fast as AI training infrastructure
through 2029. With the fastest inference platform on the market, as benchmarked by Artificial Analysis, and a
proven track record in large-scale training, we believe we are well-positioned to capture growth across both parts of
the AI infrastructure market.
Our growth reflects the broader acceleration of AI adoption. Our revenue increased from $24.6 million in 2022
to $78.7 million in 2023 and to $290.3 million in 2024, representing a more than tenfold increase over three years.
Our revenue increased to $510.0 million in 2025, representing year-over-year growth of 76% . We earned net income
of $237.8 million in 2025 and incurred net loss of $481.6 million in 2024. We incurred non-GAAP net loss of
$75.7 million in 2025 and $21.8 million in 2024, after excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expense
and change in fair value (extinguishment) of forward contract liability from our GAAP net income (loss). For more
information and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP net loss to net income (loss), see the section titled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Non-GAAP Financial
Measures."
Industry Background
AI is the Next Technological Shift
Over the past 50 years, the compute industry has undergone a series of secular shifts, each of which expanded
access to compute and transformed global productivity. We believe AI represents the next major technological shift
--one with the potential to exceed the transformational impact of prior cycles.
According to Pew Research Center, as of June 2025, around 62% of U.S. adults interacted with AI at least
several times a week, with 31% doing so almost constantly (at least several times a day), and one-third of U.S. adults
under 30 saying they interacted with AI several times a day. Additionally, the Digital Education Council found in
2024 that 86% of higher-education students used AI. According to a McKinsey survey in 2025, the share of
respondents saying their organizations are using AI in at least one business function has increased since their
research last year&#58; 88% reported regular AI use in at least one business function in 2025 compared with 78% a year
ago. In the third quarter of 2025, Gallup reported daily use of AI in the workplace had more than doubled in the past
12 months, with 10% of U.S. employees reporting they used AI in their daily roles.
The strong rate of AI adoption is driven by the simple fact that AI has transitioned from novelty to necessity and
is now used across consumer and enterprise domains. Individuals and organizations rely on AI to solve problems,
build products, accelerate research, improve patient outcomes, enhance decision-making, streamline operations,
enable innovation, and deliver personalized experiences.
The rise of AI depends on massive computational resources. This is where Cerebras fits in.
3
Table of Contents
Inference is Driving the AI Compute Demand, as Frontier AI Models Grow More Capable
AI is composed of two stages&#58; training and inference. Training is the process of creating and teaching the AI
model&#59; inference is the process of using the model to generate responses. Today, AI has entered a new era centered
on inference. New techniques have emerged that make models smarter as they are being used . This approach--
called "inference-time compute" or "test-time compute"--has become the dominant mode of inference.
Instead of depending primarily on the trained model for accuracy, today's frontier models-- such as OpenAI's
GPT-5.4, Anthropic's Claude Opus 4.7, and Google's Gemini 3.1 Pro --perform substantial computation during
inference to simulate reasoning . These models effectively "think through" the problem&#58; planning steps, checking
their own work, and refining responses before delivering a final, higher-quality result. These additional steps use
substantially more compute during inference, while producing more accurate answers.
These reasoning capabilities have fundamentally changed how people use AI. Inference is no longer limited to
answering questions&#59; modern AI applications now perform actions on behalf of their users. They can directly book
travel itineraries, code full web applications from scratch, help customers apply for mortgages, automatically
analyze legal contracts for discrepancies, process insurance claims, and more. As a result, demand for AI inference
has surged alongside the adoption of these smarter reasoning models that leverage more inference-time compute.
Ultimately, inference compute demand is driven by the compounding effect of three forces&#58; the number of
users, the frequency of use, and the compute per use. Each of these forces is growing at an extraordinary rate,
producing a geometric expansion of demand for inference and its underlying compute.
Reasoning during inference delivers smarter AI responses but requires significantly more compute. As models
become more capable, users rely on them for increasingly ambitious tasks, further driving compute needs. Today's
workloads--including video generation, deep research, and long-form analysis--can require many orders of
magnitude more compute than answering basic questions.
Reasoning Makes Inference Speed a Necessity
Speed enables reasoning models to deliver more accurate answers faster, reducing the frustration created by
forcing customers to wait for answers.
Complex tasks (harder problems) are more valuable to solve but they require the reasoning system to go through
a longer sequence of steps. This amplifies the benefit of speed and the penalty for being slow. Speed enables more
accurate answers to harder problems in less time. Speed expands the range of tasks that AI can address, thereby
broadening its addressable market.
Fast Inference Enables the Next Generation of AI Workloads, With Coding as a Clear Early Signal
As AI uses more compute to tackle increasingly complex problems, a fundamental challenge emerges&#58; everyone
wants a better response for complicated requests, but nobody wants to wait to get a response.
We are solving this problem. Cerebras Inference delivers answers up to 15 times faster than leading GPU-based
solutions as benchmarked on leading open-source models. This speed advantage enables our solutions to deliver
real-time performance for the most advanced reasoning models, enabling complex tasks to be completed more
accurately and quickly.
4
Table of Contents
These dynamics are already visible in the market. Three fast-growing categories-- software development, deep
research systems, and voice applications --illustrate the importance of speed. For these and many other similar
applications, inference speed is a necessity.
&#8226; AI-powered software development provides a clear early signal. Coding with AI is interactive and
sensitive to delay. Delay impairs a developer's train of thought, and as a result, developers are more likely
to abandon tools that slow them down.
AI can now write code. It reasons over large codebases and then uses the multi-step process previously
described to generate, modify, and run code. Inference speed has become a primary determinant for
adoption. Products such as Cursor, Claude Code, Codex, Windsurf, and GitHub Copilot act as autonomous
collaborators--planning, editing, and validating code across repositories in response to natural-language
instructions from developers. These systems require complex, multi-step tasks, including continuous
reasoning and long-context memory. Fast inference is the only way to avoid frustrating wait times.
AI-native coding products barely existed in 2023. Yet they collectively generated billions in ARR in 2025
and continue to accelerate. For example, AI coding applications like Lovable and Cursor are among some
of the fastest growing developer tools in history. AI coding agents have become central to how software is
written. Anthropic's Claude Code is already at a reported annual revenue run rate of $2.5 billion as of
February 2026&#59; Claude Code's creator said in January 2026 that he writes 100% of his code with AI. In
addition, professional developers report that 42% of code is now AI-generated or assisted, according to a
survey conducted by SonarSource in October 2025. By droves, software engineers are shifting from writing
code to supervising fleets of AI coding agents. Faster inferenc e means more productive engineers. Coding
demonstrates a fundamental pattern in reasoning systems&#58; wherever AI involves continuous interaction,
multi-step reasoning, and sensitivity to response time, speed determines utility. Those same conditions are
present across a growing set of AI applications.
&#8226; Deep research systems apply similar reasoning to knowledge work, performing multi-step retrieval and
synthesis across large datasets to deliver structured insights in real time. Platforms such as AlphaSense rely
on real-time inference to sift through a higher volume of documents to help analysts and enterprises find
answers faster.
&#8226; Voice applications include conversational agents, avatars, and digital twins from companies like Meta,
Tavus, and OpenCall. Real-time performance is critical for voice&#58; sub-second latency makes interactions
feel natural and gives these systems time to call tools or retrieve data mid-conversation for richer,
contextual responses.
Together, we believe these applications lead the way in the next phase of AI adoption&#58; systems that think, act,
and interact continuously, driving sustained demand for faster and more efficient compute infrastructure.
In this environment, speed directly shapes usage. Long wait times limit real-time applications, stunt the
diffusion of AI capabilities, and can inhibit new markets and applications. As a result, slow systems lose users, limit
capability, and stall innovation, while faster systems are used more often and for more demanding workloads.
We believe speed is a defining advantage in modern AI. Reasoning is intelligence, and intelligence compounds
with speed. We believe the ability to deliver fast, scalable reasoning will define not only the next decade of
technology, but also shape the future of how people work, create, and interact.
Our Solution
We are building the fastest commercial AI infrastructure in the world. Our AI supercomputers are purpose built
to make AI fast. Our full-stack hardware and software platform is designed to complete AI tasks significantly faster
and more efficiently than comparable GPU-based solutions, whether deployed on premises, through the Cerebras
Cloud, or via partner clouds.
5
Table of Contents
1. Hardware Platform
At the core of our solution is the Cerebras WSE, the largest and fastest AI processor ever brought to market in
high volumes. The WSE combines 900,000 compute cores, 44 gigabytes of on-chip memory, and 21 petabytes of
memory bandwidth on the largest commercial chip ever built. The WSE-3 is 58 times larger than NVIDIA's B200
chip. The WSE has 19 times more transistors, 250 times more on-chip memory, and 2,625 times more memory
bandwidth than NVIDIA's B200 package, which contains two individual chips.
Each WSE is housed inside a Cerebras CS-3 system, our fully integrated AI compute system that includes
advanced cooling, power delivery, and interconnect technology. Multiple CS-3 systems connect to form Cerebras AI
supercomputers deployed on premises in customer data centers and in the cloud.
2. Co-designed Software Platform
Our software platform makes wafer-scale computing simple to use. It spans the full AI life cycle--from model
programming and compilation, to training and inference, to cluster orchestration.
&#8226; Cerebras Compiler compiles PyTorch models directly to the WSE, eliminating the need for CUDA or
distributed programming and providing an easy-to-use developer experience.
&#8226; Cerebras Inference Serving Stack delivers ultra-low-latency inference with industry-standard APIs for
production use.
&#8226; Cerebras Cluster Manager orchestrates multiple CS-3 systems into one logical AI supercomputer,
handling scheduling, telemetry, and health monitoring at scale.
Because every layer is co-designed with our hardware, customers can scale training and inference across
frontier-size models without rewriting code or managing distributed infrastructure.
3. Flexible Deployment Models
Our technology is designed to be delivered in the form that best accelerates a customer's AI roadmap. Our
platform is designed for flexibility--meeting organizations where they are, and scaling with them as their ambitions
grow.
&#8226; Cerebras Cloud&#58; Provides high-performance AI compute through a simple API, allowing customers to
serve open-source, fine-tuned, or proprietary models with production-grade reliability.
&#8226; Partner Clouds&#58; Offer seamless access to Cerebras systems through leading cloud providers including
AWS Marketplace, Microsoft Marketplace, IBM watsonx Model Gateway, Vercel AI Gateway,
OpenRouter, and Hugging Face, extending our reach across the global AI ecosystem.
&#8226; On-Premises Deployments&#58; Deliver fully integrated AI supercomputers and install them directly in
customer environments, giving enterprises, Sovereign AI initiatives, national laboratories, and defense
organizations complete control over data, performance, and operations. We also operate and manage large
clusters of AI supercomputers for some of our customers.
&#8226; Hybrid Deployments&#58; Enable customers to move fluidly between on-premises and cloud environments
through a unified software stack, maintaining consistent performance and workflows as they scale.
Customers choose the consumption model that fits their needs--buying inference by the token, running training
workloads by the week or month, reserving dedicated capacity for long-term production deployments, or purchasing
on-premises infrastructure.
6
Table of Contents
4. AI Model Services
Our AI experts accelerate customers' ability to take AI applications from concept to production. With deep
experience training and deploying frontier-scale models across modalities, our team helps customers select model
architectures, prepare large-scale training data, and train and fine-tune models for production. We also design
optimized deployments for customers--training draft or speculative decoding models and tuning configurations to
balance latency, throughput, and cost for each application.
What This Means for Customers
Our customers, which include hyperscalers, foundation model labs, AI-native and digital-native businesses,
enterprises, and leaders of Sovereign AI initiatives, complete tasks dramatically faster than on GPU-based systems.
Faster reasoning improves user experience, increases engagement, accelerates iteration, and enables new classes of
AI applications. This speed advantage compounds in production environments, where reduced latency and shorter
training cycles have meaningful business impact.
Key Customer Benefits
Through our full-stack AI offerings, we deliver tangible improvements across four key dimensions that define
AI value in the real world&#58; speed, quality, cost, and simplicity .
1. Speed&#58; Real-Time Reasoning Unlocks New Benefits From AI
Our systems achieve dramatically faster inference than GPU clusters, enabling applications such as real-time
coding agents, nearly instant deep research, and digital twins that were previously impractical or impossible.
Customers describe the leap in inference speed as akin to going from dial-up to broadband--an advancement that
redefines what AI can do.
New classes of products that customers have built and use daily with Cerebras include&#58;
&#8226; Real-time coding agents&#58; Copilots that read, write, and debug code nearly instantly--turning AI into an
interactive programming partner.
&#8226; Nearly instant deep research agents&#58; Systems that analyze thousands of documents in seconds,
accelerating market, scientific, and policy research.
&#8226; Digital twins&#58; Lifelike AI personas that think, speak, and react in real time. With Cerebras, avatars respond
without awkward delays, and carry conversations that are more natural and interactive.
2. Quality&#58; More Accurate Responses Faster
On GPUs, latency forces a tradeoff between speed and intelligence. Developers often have to limit the accuracy
of a response in order to have it delivered in a reasonable amount of time. Our offerings are designed to remove this
tradeoff. Our inference speed allows developers to use substantially more reasoning tokens while maintaining the
same end-to-end task completion time. We turn quality from a limitation into a feature&#59; customers can now serve
some of the largest models at full strength, in nearly real time.
3. Cost&#58; Higher Performance at Lower Power
Moving data from one chip to another is one of the most power-intensive parts of AI compute. And power is the
largest contributor to operating expenses in AI compute.
Our wafer-scale architecture keeps data on-chip, reducing data movement significantly, which in turn reduces
power consumption. It also eliminates layers of costly and complex networking equipment. By way of comparison,
7
Table of Contents
moving a bit of data on the WSE-3 consumes a fraction of the energy required to move the same bit of data over
GPU interconnects.
Because our performance advantages stem from fundamental architectural efficiency, we expect these benefits
to endure across future generations that continue to build on our wafer-scale technology.
4. Simplicity&#58; One Platform&#59; No Distributed Programming&#59; Easy to Train and Deploy Models
We eliminate the complexity of distributed programming across GPU clusters, which is one of the most
challenging aspects of AI deployment. Even extremely large models run without code changes, and scale
automatically and seamlessly across clusters of Cerebras systems. Because training, fine-tuning, and inference all
occur on a unified platform, customers avoid the operational overhead of moving between different compute
environments, enabling inference, fine-tuning, and training from scratch on the same cluster. Cerebras Compiler's
PyTorch integration makes model customization and compilation simple, the Inference Serving Stack enables
deployment of frontier-sized models in minutes, and our AI experts support customers throughout the model life
cycle to accelerate results. Cerebras's deployment platform also allows customers to run models that were not
trained on Cerebras hardware and still achieve exceptional inference performance.
Our Technology
Wafer-Scale Integration&#58; The Foundation
Cerebras started with a simple question&#58; How could a new class of processors be designed with the singular goal
of solving the compute challenges presented by AI&#63; Beginning with a clean slate, how could we avoid the trade-offs
made for graphics and other workloads to ensure that every transistor, every single part of the processor, was
optimized for the requirements of AI&#63;
Our answer is wafer-scale integration. Wafer-scale integration enabled us to use a vastly faster memory and
avoid the complexity of switches and routers and associated complexity necessary to link together thousands of
GPUs.
SRAM is the fastest memory to date. But existing industry players could not use as much SRAM because they
could not fit it on their chip. By building a chip 58 times larger than NVIDIA's B200 chip, we can maximize fast,
on-chip SRAM and get the benefits of two worlds&#58; (1) significantly more memory capacity because we built such a
big chip, and (2) the benefits of the massive bandwidth provided by SRAM. Wafer scale enables us to deliver a
solution with 2,625 times more memory bandwidth than NVIDIA's B200 package, which is how we are able to
deliver inference at extremely fast speeds.
The second fundamental advantage provided by wafer-scale integration is that it kept the wafer intact. Instead of
building a wafer, cutting it into dozens of small GPUs , and using expensive, power-hungry switches, and complex
cables to wire them back together, our solution consists of one processor that is the size of an entire silicon wafer.
This reduced the need, cost, managerial complexity, and power draw of much of the networking stack required to
build a GPU solution.
Our wafer-scale solution unifies compute and memory and communications on the same piece of silicon,
eliminating the data-movement bottlenecks that slow GPU systems.
The Underpinnings of Wafer-Scale Integration
We solved a problem that flummoxed the compute industry for its entire history&#58; how to build chips the size of
full silicon wafers. The advantages of size were well known. But no company had ever brought a wafer-scale
solution to market.
8
Table of Contents
To make wafer-scale commercially viable, we invented and productized two foundational semiconductor
technologies&#58;
&#8226; Multi-die interconnect&#58; Traditionally, die--regions of silicon containing an integrated circuit--are
individually stamped onto a silicon wafer and then cut up ("diced") into small, separate chips. Prior to
Cerebras, the largest known chip was about 840 mm 2 . We invented technology to interconnect these
otherwise independent die together at the wafer level, at the semiconductor fabrication plant. The inter-die
connectivity uses a proprietary cross-reticle connection that is integrated into our overall fabrication
process. This allowed us to use existing processes to do something we believe had never been done before
--namely, deliver a wafer that communicated across the entire 46,225 mm 2 of silicon and therefore is a
single massive processor.
&#8226; Fault-tolerant architecture&#58; A primary factor in the commercial viability of a semiconductor is the yield.
Flaws are present in wafers. Large chips have a higher probability of hitting such a flaw. Traditionally,
chips with flaws have been thrown out or "down binned," that is, sold as a less capable part. Thus, using
traditional techniques, larger chips have lower yield and are therefore more expensive. We designed the
architecture to absorb and route around defects using redundant building blocks--similar to a hyperscale
data center but on the wafer. Flaws are designed to be recognized, shut down, and routed around.
Redundant building blocks are used to re-form a logically functional whole. This approach had been
previously used in memory manufacturing to achieve near-perfect yield, but to our knowledge, prior to
Cerebras had not been used to build processors.
These innovations made wafer-scale computing commercially viable for the first time in semiconductor history.
The Cerebras Chip, System, and Software
Cerebras delivers a full-stack AI infrastructure solution. It contains innovations at each layer. At the base is the
Cerebras WSE, our wafer-scale processor. Each WSE is integrated into a CS-3 system with advanced power
delivery, cooling, and system management. Multiple CS-3 systems link together to form Cerebras AI
supercomputers that are deployed in data centers around the world.
Lightweight management and orchestration software operate these systems as one logical computer, while our
training and inference platforms make it simple to run large models at scale. Because each layer is designed with the
others in mind, the platform delivers consistent performance, reduced infrastructure complexity, and faster time to
deployment and results.
1. The Chip&#58; Cerebras Wafer-Scale Engine
At the heart of our platform is the Cerebras WSE , the world's largest and fastest commercialized AI processor.
A single WSE replaces an entire cluster of GPUs by combining 900,000 compute cores and 44 gigabytes of on-chip
memory on one piece of silicon, with 21 petabytes per second of on-chip memory bandwidth. The WSE-3 is 58
times larger than NVIDIA's B200 chip. The WSE-3 also has 19 times more transistors, 250 times more on-chip
memory, and 2,625 times more memory bandwidth than NVIDIA's B200 package, which contains two individual
chips.
We believe our architecture solves for memory bandwidth, which is a primary bottleneck in modern AI. By
keeping compute and memory on a single chip, WSE-3 eliminates the off-chip data transfers that dominate GPU
latency and power consumption. As a result, our systems are faster, simpler to program, and more power-efficient
than GPUs on AI tasks.
2. CS-3&#58; System Innovation for Wafer-Scale Compute
The WSE-3 is deployed inside the CS-3 system , a data center-ready appliance engineered to support wafer-
scale operation and integrate seamlessly into enterprise and Sovereign AI environments. The CS-3 provides the
9
Table of Contents
power delivery, cooling, networking, and system management required to operate a wafer-scale processor reliably
and at scale. Multiple CS-3 systems can be connected to form Cerebras AI supercomputers, which function as a
single logical computer for large-scale training and inference.
3. Cerebras Software&#58; Making Wafer-Scale Simple
Our software platform extends our hardware advantage by making wafer-scale computing simple to use and
highly efficient. Our software spans the full AI life cycle--from programming and compiling models, to training and
inference, to orchestration across large clusters. Each layer is co-designed with our hardware to deliver maximum
performance with minimal developer effort.
&#8226; Model Programming and Compilation. Our Cerebras Compiler ( CSoft ) makes it simple to run large
language models on our systems. CSoft is core to our solution and provides intuitive usability for
developers. CSoft eliminates the need for low-level programming in CUDA or other hardware-specific
languages. For both training and inference, our CSoft platform enables developers to easily represent and
map large language models onto the Cerebras Wafer-Scale Engine using familiar frameworks such as
PyTorch. CSoft allows machine-learning users to accelerate training and inference on models of any size,
scaled across any configuration of the Cerebras AI supercomputer.
&#8226; Inference Serving Stack. Our Cerebras Inference Serving Stack manages model hosting, scaling, and
request routing across Cerebras systems and clusters. It provides real-time observability and load balancing,
enabling ultra-low-latency inference for production workloads. Customers can serve both open-source and
proprietary models through standard APIs, including industry-standard endpoints, with consistent
performance across on-premises and cloud deployments.
&#8226; Orchestration and Life Cycle Management. Our Cerebras Cluster Manager orchestration software
unifies multiple CS-3 systems into a single logical computer, managing scheduling, telemetry, and health
monitoring. Built-in observability of all hardware and software components is designed to ensure reliability
and high utilization across on-premises and in cloud environments. This orchestration layer also allows
customers to switch seamlessly between training and inference on the same systems.
Together, these components form a unified software platform that integrates seamlessly with our hardware to
deliver a complete, end-to-end AI computing system that can be deployed on customer premises or in the cloud.
Because our software and hardware are co-designed, customers can train and&#47;or deploy frontier-scale models with
consistent and simple workflows--without rewriting code or managing distributed infrastructure.
Technology and Roadmap
Wafer-scale integration is not a single achievement--it is a collection of technologies and processes with a
multi-generation roadmap. Each successive WSE generation (from 16 nanometer to 7 nanometer and now to
5 nanometer) has delivered substantial improvements in performance, memory bandwidth, efficiency, yield, and
manufacturability, without requiring changes to how developers program or deploy models.
Our roadmap builds on the advantages of wafer-scale integration. We intend to invest heavily in research and
development to continue to expand on-chip memory and memory bandwidth, improve interconnect density, and
leverage advancements in process technology to increase transistor counts and reduce power in future WSE
generations. As a result, we expect that future generations of WSEs will have faster compute, and more and faster
memory and communication onto and off of the wafer.
The same architectural foundation also supports long-term extensibility across emerging AI workloads. As
models grow in size, increase in reasoning depth, and shift toward real-time, multi-step interactions, they place even
greater emphasis on memory bandwidth and locality--all areas where wafer-scale architectures possess inherent,
structural advantages.
10
Table of Contents
We believe wafer-scale computing positions us as a leader in AI infrastructure, providing a long-term
technology roadmap designed to scale with the requirements of modern and future AI systems.
Competitive Strengths
1. Our culture of fearless engineering has enabled us to do pioneering engineering work&#59; we are the
only company ever to deliver a wafer-scale processor to market. Our culture of fearless engineering
enables us to solve problems that others failed to solve or were afraid to tackle.
2. We have durable advantages rooted in our unique silicon architecture. We believe wafer-scale
integration is a fundamental advantage in AI compute, enabling large amounts of high-speed memory and
hundreds of thousands of compute cores to reside close together on the same piece of silicon. We have now
delivered three generations of wafer-scale processors at the 16, 7, and 5 nanometer nodes.
3. We are an end-to-end systems company. From inception, we co-designed our wafer-scale engine, our
CS-system, and our software stack for optimal AI performance. We were among the first in the AI
community to deliver water cooling to the processor, enabling us to run colder and extend our processors'
lifetime. The co-design of processor, system, and software is a meaningful competitive advantage.
4. We are building the fastest inference infrastructure in the world. On Cerebras infrastructure, AI
responses are up to 15 times faster than leading GPU-based solutions as benchmarked on leading open-
source models. Speed is customer experience. Speed changes the way companies design their experiences.
5. We are serving some of the largest and most demanding customers in the AI market. We are engaged
with customers such as OpenAI, the world's leading foundation model lab, and AWS, the world's leading
hyperscale cloud, who have stringent requirements for performance, scale, and reliability. We offer a full-
stack hardware and software platform that can be optimized for each customer's workloads and paired with
AI services in order to deploy and operate high-capacity, production-grade systems without requiring
customers to manage complex infrastructure.
6. We operate at massive scale with more than 100 exaflops of deployed compute. In collaboration with
our partners, we have trained some of the largest models in the industry, gaining unique experience and
providing rare insight.
Risk Factors Summary
Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties of which you should be aware before making a
decision to invest in our Class A common stock. These risks are more fully described in the section titled "Risk
Factors." These risks include, among others, the following&#58;
&#8226; We may not sustain our growth rate, and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively.
&#8226; We have a history of generating net losses, and if we are unable to achieve adequate revenue growth while
our expenses increase, we may not achieve and maintain profitability in the future.
&#8226; We have a limited operating history at our current scale, and we may have difficulty evaluating our current
business and accurately predicting our future revenue for the purpose of appropriately budgeting and
adjusting our expenses.
&#8226; A substantial portion of our revenue has been, and is expected to continue to be, driven by a limited number
of customers. A reduction in demand from, or a material adverse development in our relationship with any
of our significant customers, including OpenAI, G42, MBZUAI, and AWS, or our failure to meet our
obligations under the MRA with OpenAI, would harm our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects.
11
Table of Contents
&#8226; Our revenue historically has been derived from sales of our hardware systems. We are in the early stages of
delivering our cloud-based offerings, the market for which is new and evolving rapidly, and which require
significant data center capacity and capital investments for which we expect to require significant
additional capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to sustain revenues from these efforts.
&#8226; Our cloud-based offerings are subject to certain risks and challenges. Unfavorable or uncertain conditions
in the training or inference cloud market, as well as for AI infrastructure, may cause fluctuations in our
results of operations.
&#8226; The broader adoption, use, and commercialization of AI technology, and the continued rapid pace of
developments in the AI field, are inherently uncertain. If we are unable to expand the application of our
products, keep up with evolving AI technology requirements, or if the new products we develop and
introduce into the market are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects may be harmed.
&#8226; The market for AI computing solutions is competitive, evolving, and requires scale, and if we do not
compete effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
&#8226; We depend on third-party suppliers, including certain sole sources, and substantially all of our
manufacturing services and components are procured on a purchase order basis without capacity or volume
commitments, which may harm our ability to compete with larger companies, meet customer demand,
satisfy customer contracts or bring products to market, and our reputation, business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects.
&#8226; Our supply chain is long, complex, and global, with many interdependencies. Any significant fluctuations
of supply and demand or disruption to our supply chain may harm our ability to manufacture and deliver
our products to our customers.
&#8226; Our business and our products and services are subject to various governmental regulations, and
compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expense. If we fail to comply with
applicable regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.
&#8226; Our offerings are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with
the required export license or through a license exception. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful
in obtaining all required licenses in the future. If we are unable to obtain licenses to export our products,
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
&#8226; We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to
remediate these material weaknesses, or if we identify additional material weaknesses in the future or
otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or
timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor
confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock.
&#8226; The multi-class structure of our capital stock as contained in our amended and restated certificate of
incorporation has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who held our securities
prior to this offering, including our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, and
limiting your ability to influence corporate matters, which could adversely affect the price of our Class A
common stock.
&#8226; No public market for our common stock currently exists and an active liquid market may not develop or be
sustained following this offering.
12
Table of Contents
Corporate Information
We were incorporated in April 2016 as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at
1237 E. Arques Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94085, and our telephone number is (650) 933-4980. Our website
address is www.cerebras.ai . Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not
constitute part of this prospectus, and the inclusion of our website address in this prospectus is an inactive textual
reference only.
Implications of Being an Emerging Growth Company
We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the
"JOBS Act"). We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of&#58; (i) the last day of the fiscal year
following the fifth anniversary of the completion of this offering&#59; (ii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have
total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion&#59; (iii) the last day of the fiscal year in which we are deemed to be
a "large accelerated filer" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act"), which would occur if the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates
exceeded $700.0 million as of the last business day of the second fiscal quarter of such year&#59; or (iv) the date on
which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period.
An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting requirements and is relieved of
certain other significant requirements that are otherwise generally applicable to public companies. As an emerging
growth company&#58;
&#8226; we will present in this prospectus only two years of audited annual financial statements, plus any required
unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and related management's discussion and analysis
of financial condition and results of operations&#59;
&#8226; we will avail ourselves of the exemption from the requirement to obtain an attestation and report from our
independent registered public accounting firm on the assessment of our internal control over financial
reporting pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002&#59;
&#8226; we will provide less extensive disclosure about our executive compensation arrangements&#59; and
&#8226; we will not require stockholder non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or golden parachute
arrangements.
In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended
transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth
company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private
companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for any other new or revised accounting standards
until the date that we are no longer an emerging growth company or affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the
extended transition period. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply
with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.
13
Table of Contents
THE OFFERING
Class A common stock offered by us ...............................
shares.
Over-allotment option to purchase additional shares of
Class A common stock from us .....................................
shares.
Class A common stock to be outstanding immediately
after this offering ...........................................................
shares (or shares if the underwriters
exercise their over-allotment option in full).
Class B common stock to be outstanding immediately
after this offering ...........................................................
shares.
Class N common stock to be outstanding immediately
after this offering ...........................................................
None.
Total Class A common stock, Class B common stock,
and Class N common stock to be outstanding after
this offering ...................................................................
shares (or shares if the underwriters
exercise their over-allotment option in full).
Use of proceeds .................................................................
We estimate that we will receive net proceeds from this
offering of approximately $ (or $ if
the underwriters exercise their over-allotment option in
full), based upon the assumed initial public offering
price of $ per share of Class A common stock,
which is the midpoint of the estimated price range set
forth on the cover page of this prospectus, and after
deducting estimated underwriting discounts and
commissions and estimated offering expenses payable
by us.
The principal purposes of this offering are to obtain
additional capital to fund our operations, create a public
market for our Class A common stock, facilitate our
future access to the public equity markets, and increase
awareness of our company among potential partners.
We currently intend to use the net proceeds from this
offering, together with our existing cash, cash
equivalents, and investments, for general corporate
purposes, including working capital, operating expenses,
and capital expenditures. We may also use a portion of
the net proceeds to in-license, acquire, or invest in
complementary technologies, assets, businesses, or
intellectual property. We periodically evaluate strategic
opportunities&#59; however, we have no current
commitments to enter into any such acquisitions or
make any such investments.
We intend to use approximately $ of the net
proceeds to satisfy tax withholding and remittance
obligations related to the RSU Net Settlement (as
defined below) for restricted stock units ("RSUs") that
will vest in connection with this offering.
We will have broad discretion in the way that we use the
net proceeds of this offering. See the section titled
" Use of Proceeds " for additional information.
14
Table of Contents
Voting rights .....................................................................
We will have three classes of common stock&#58; Class A
common stock, Class B common stock, and Class N
common stock. Each share of Class A common stock is
entitled to one vote per share, each share of Class B
common stock is entitled to 20 votes per share and is
convertible at any time into one share of Class A
common stock, and each share of Class N common
stock is non-voting and is convertible into one share of
Class A common stock.
Holders of Class A common stock and Class B common
stock will generally vote together as a single class,
unless otherwise required by law or our amended and
restated certificate of incorporation that will be in effect
immediately prior to the completion of this offering.
Once this offering is completed (and without giving
effect to any shares that may be purchased in this
offering or pursuant to our directed share program), the
holders of our outstanding Class B common stock will
hold approximately % of our outstanding shares
and control approximately % of the voting power
of our outstanding shares, and our executive officers,
directors, and stockholders holding more than 5% of our
outstanding capital stock, together with their affiliates,
will beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately
% of our outstanding shares and control
approximately % of the voting power of our
outstanding shares.
The holders of our outstanding Class B common stock
will have the ability to control the outcome of matters
submitted to our stockholders for approval, including
the election of our directors and the approval of any
change in control transaction.
See the sections titled "Principal Stockholders" and
" Description of Capital Stock " for additional
information.
Directed share program .....................................................
At our request, the underwriters have reserved up to
% of the shares of Class A common stock offered
by this prospectus, for sale at the initial public offering
price through a directed share program to certain
persons identified by our management and certain long-
tenured employees, which may include parties with
whom we have a business relationship and friends and
family of management and such employees. Any
reserved shares of Class A common stock that are not so
purchased will be offered by the underwriters to the
general public on the same terms as the other shares of
our Class A common stock offered by this prospectus.
See the section titled "Underwriters--Directed Share
Program" for additional information. If purchased by
these persons, these shares will not be subject to lock-up
restrictions, except to the extent that the purchasers of
such shares are otherwise subject to lock-up agreements
as a result of their relationships with us. The number of
shares of Class A common stock available for sale to the
general public will be reduced by the number of
reserved shares sold pursuant to this program.
Risk factors .......................................................................
See the section titled " Risk Factors " and other
information included in this prospectus for a discussion
of factors you should carefully consider before deciding
whether to invest in our Class A common stock.
15
Table of Contents
Proposed Nasdaq Global Select Market trading symbol ..
"CBRS"
In this prospectus, the number of shares of our common stock to be outstanding after this offering is based on no
shares of our Class A common stock, shares of our Class B common stock, and no shares of our Class N
common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2025, after giving effect to the Preferred Stock Conversion, the
Common Stock Reclassification, and the RSU Net Settlement (each as defined below), and excludes &#58;
&#8226; 28,361,707 shares of our Class B common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options as
of December 31, 2025, with a weighted-average exercise price of $4.97 per share&#59;
&#8226; shares of our Class B common stock issuable upon the vesting and settlement of RSUs subject to
service-based and liquidity-based vesting conditions outstanding as of December 31, 2025, for which the
service-based vesting condition was not yet satisfied as of December 31, 2025 and for which the liquidity-
based vesting condition will be satisfied in connection with this offering, after giving effect to the RSU Net
Settlement&#59;
&#8226; shares of Class B common stock issuable upon the vesting and settlement of RSUs subject to
service-based and liquidity-based vesting conditions granted after December 31, 2025, for which the
service-based vesting condition was not yet satisfied as of December 31, 2025 and for which the liquidity-
based vesting condition will be satisfied in connection with this offering, after giving effect to the RSU Net
Settlement&#59;
&#8226; 9,000,000 shares of Class B common stock issuable upon the vesting and settlement of RSUs subject to
market-based vesting conditions ("PRSUs") granted after December 31, 2025, for which the market-based
vesting condition was not yet satisfied as of December 31, 2025 (see the section titled "Executive and
Director Compensation--Narrative to Summary Compensation Table--Equity-Based Compensation--
2026 Founder PRSU Awards" for additional information)&#59;
&#8226; 33,445,026 shares of our Class N common stock issuable upon the exercise of a warrant outstanding as of
December 31, 2025, with an exercise price of $0.00001 per share (the "OpenAI Warrant"), subject to
satisfaction of vesting conditions (see the section titled "Capitalization--Vesting of Shares Underlying the
OpenAI Warrant" for additional information)&#59;
&#8226; 2,696,678 shares of our Class N common stock issuable upon the exercise of a warrant authorized after
December 31, 2025, with an exercise price of $100.00 per share, subject to satisfaction of vesting
conditions &#59;
&#8226; 3,682,000 shares of our Class N common stock issued after December 31, 2025&#59;
&#8226; shares of our Class A common stock reserved for future issuance under our 2026 Incentive
Award Plan (the "2026 Plan"), which will become effective on the day immediately prior to the date of
effectiveness of the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part, including new
shares and the number of shares (i) that remain available for grant of future awards under our 2016 Equity
Incentive Plan (as amended, the "2016 Plan") at the time the 2026 Plan becomes effective, which shares
will cease to be available for issuance under the 2016 Plan at such time and (ii) underlying outstanding
stock-based compensation awards granted under the 2016 Plan (such awards outstanding under such plan,
the "Prior Plan Awards") that expire, or are cancelled, forfeited, reacquired, or withheld&#59; and
&#8226; shares of our Class A common stock reserved for future issuance under our 2026 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which will become effective on the day immediately prior to the date of
effectiveness of the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part.
16
Table of Contents
The 2026 Plan and the ESPP also provide for automatic annual increases in the number of shares reserved
thereunder. See the section titled "Executive and Director Compensation--Equity Compensation Plans" for
additional information.
Except as otherwise indicated, all information in this prospectus assumes or gives effect to&#58;
&#8226; the adoption, filing, and effectiveness of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the
adoption of our amended and restated bylaws, each of which will occur immediately prior to the completion
of this offering&#59;
&#8226; the automatic conversion of all outstanding shares of our redeemable convertible preferred stock into an
aggregate of 124,652,775 shares of our newly created Class B common stock, which will occur prior to the
completion of this offering (the "Preferred Stock Conversion")&#59;
&#8226; the reclassification of our outstanding Class A common stock into a newly created Class B common stock
and the authorization of a new Class A common stock, which will occur prior to the completion of this
offering (the "Common Stock Reclassification")&#59;
&#8226; the net issuance of shares of our Class B common stock issuable upon the vesting and settlement
of RSUs subject to service-based and liquidity-based vesting conditions outstanding as of , 2026,
for which the service-based vesting condition was satisfied as of , 2026 and for which the
liquidity-based vesting condition will be satisfied in connection with this offering, after giving effect to the
withholding of an estimated shares to satisfy estimated tax withholding and remittance
obligations (based on an assumed % tax withholding rate) (the "RSU Net Settlement")&#59;
&#8226; no repurchase of outstanding shares of our capital stock after December 31, 2025&#59;
&#8226; no exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants or settlement of outstanding RSUs after December 31,
2025, except for the RSU Net Settlement&#59; and
&#8226; no exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option to purchase additional shares from us.
17
Table of Contents
Summary Consolidated Financial Data
The following tables set forth our summary consolidated financial data. The summary consolidated statements
of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024 have been derived from our audited
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus. Our historical results are not necessarily
indicative of results that may be expected in the future.
You should read the following summary consolidated financial data in conjunction with the section titled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this prospectus. The summary consolidated financial
data in this section are not intended to replace, and are qualified in their entirety by, the consolidated financial
statements and related notes .
18
Table of Contents
Year Ended December 31,
2025
2024
(in thousands, except per share
amounts)
Consolidated Statement of Operations&#58;
Revenue
Hardware ...............................................................................................................
$ 358,440
$ 211,965
Cloud and other services .......................................................................................
151,551
78,287
Total revenue .............................................................................................................
509,991
290,252
Cost of revenue (1)
Hardware ...............................................................................................................
204,746
137,310
Cloud and other services .......................................................................................
106,174
30,204
Total cost of revenue .................................................................................................
310,920
167,514
Gross profit ................................................................................................................
199,071
122,738
Operating expenses
Research and development (1) ................................................................................
243,319
158,234
Sales and marketing (1) ...........................................................................................
70,645
20,980
General and administrative (1) ................................................................................
30,969
44,962
Total operating expenses ...........................................................................................
344,933
224,176
Loss from operations .................................................................................................
(145,862)
(101,438)
Other income (expense), net ......................................................................................
390,746
(378,237)
Income (loss) before income taxes ............................................................................
244,884
(479,675)
Income tax expense ...................................................................................................
7,057
1,927
Net income (loss) .......................................................................................................
$ 237,827
$ (481,602)
Less&#58; Net income attributable to participating securities ...........................................
149,952
--
Less&#58; Deemed dividend on issuance of Series F-1 redeemable convertible
preferred stock ........................................................................................................
--
3,182
Net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders ...........................................
$ 87,875
$ (484,784)
Net income (loss) per share attributable to common shareholders&#58; ...........................
Basic ......................................................................................................................
$ 1.64
$ (9.90)
Diluted ..................................................................................................................
$ 1.38
$ (9.90)
Weighted average shares used in per share computation&#58;
Basic ......................................................................................................................
53,616
48,972
Diluted ..................................................................................................................
171,821
48,972
Pro forma net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and
diluted (3) .................................................................................................................
Pro forma weighted-average shares used in calculating pro forma net loss per
share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted (3) ............................
Other Financial Information&#58;
Non-GAAP operating loss (4) ......................................................................................
$ (96,095)
$ (42,874)
Non-GAAP net loss (5) ................................................................................................
$ (75,742)
$ (21,774)
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ...................................................
$ (10,050)
$ 451,978
19
Table of Contents
_______________
(1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows&#58;
Year Ended December 31,
2025
2024
(in thousands)
Cost of revenue ...................................................................................................
$ 827
$ 921
Research and development .................................................................................
32,154
41,397
Sales and marketing ............................................................................................
9,950
8,723
General and administrative .................................................................................
6,836
7,523
Total stock-based compensation expense ...........................................................
$ 49,767
$ 58,564
Stock-based compensation expense included $14.1 million and $30.7 m illion for the years ended December 31,
2025 and 2024, respectively, related to secondary transactions in each period. See Note 14 to our audited
consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus for additional details on the secondary
transactions.
(2) See Note 7 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus for an
explanation of the method used to calculate our basic and diluted net income (loss) per share and the weighted-
average number of shares used in the computation of per share amounts.
(3) The pro forma weighted-average shares used in computing pro forma net loss per share gives effect to (i) the
Preferred Stock Conversion, (ii) the Common Stock Reclassification, and (iii) the RSU Net Settlement. The pro
forma net loss used to calculate pro forma net loss per share reflects stock-based compensation expense of
approximately $ that we will recognize upon the completion of this offering related to RSUs subject to
service-based and liquidity-based vesting conditions for which the service-based vesting condition was satisfied
as of December 31, 2025 and for which the liquidity-based vesting condition will be satisfied in connection with
this offering.
(4) See "Non-GAAP Operating Loss" below for additional information and for a reconciliation of Non-GAAP
operating loss to loss from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").
(5) See "Non-GAAP Net Loss" below for additional information and for a reconciliation of Non-GAAP net loss to
net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
As of December 31, 2025
Actual
Pro Forma (1)
Pro Forma
As Adjusted (2)(3)
(in thousands)
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data&#58;
Cash and cash equivalents .........................................................................
$ 701,706
$
$
Working capital (4) .......................................................................................
824,106
Total assets .................................................................................................
2,326,037
Total liabilities ...........................................................................................
971,344
Redeemable convertible preferred stock ....................................................
1,933,348
Stockholders' deficit ..................................................................................
$ (578,655)
_______________
(1) The pro forma column above gives effect to (i) the filing and effectiveness of our amended and restated
certificate of incorporation, which will occur immediately prior to the completion of this offering&#59; (ii) the
Preferred Stock Conversion&#59; (iii) the Common Stock Reclassification&#59; (iv) the RSU Net Settlement&#59; (v) the
increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and an equivalent decrease in additional paid-in capital
of $ in connection with the estimated tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the RSU Net
Settlement&#59; and (vi) stock-based compensation expense of approximately $ that we will recognize upon
the completion of this offering related to RSUs subject to service-based and liquidity-based vesting conditions
for which the service-based vesting condition was satisfied as of December 31, 2025 and for which the
liquidity-based vesting condition will be satisfied in connection with this offering.
20
Table of Contents
(2) The pro forma as adjusted column above gives further effect to (i) the pro forma adjustments set forth above&#59;
(ii) the issuance and sale of shares of Class A common stock by us in this offering at an assumed
initial public offering price of $ per share, which is the midpoint of the estimated price range set forth on
the cover page of this prospectus, after deducting estimated underwriting discounts and commissions and
estimated offering expenses payable by us&#59; and (iii) the use of a portion of the net proceeds from this offering to
satisfy the estimated tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the RSU Net Settlement.
(3) Each $1.00 increase or decrease in the assumed initial public offering price of $ per share, which is the
midpoint of the estimated price range set forth on the cover page of this prospectus, would increase or decrease,
as applicable, each of cash and cash equivalents, working capital, total assets, and stockholders' deficit by
$ , assuming that the number of shares of Class A common stock offered by us, as set forth on the cover
page of this prospectus, remains the same, and after deducting estimated underwriting discounts and
commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by us. Similarly, each increase or decrease of 1.0 million
shares in the number of shares of Class A common stock offered by us would increase or decrease, as
applicable, each of cash and cash equivalents, working capital, total assets, and stockholders' deficit by $ ,
assuming the assumed initial public offering price of $ per share remains the same, and after deducting
estimated underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses payable by us. In addition,
each 1.0% increase or decrease in the assumed tax withholding rate would increase or decrease, as applicable,
the amount of estimated tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the RSU Net Settlement by
$ . Pro forma adjustments in the footnotes above and the related information in the consolidated balance
sheet data are illustrative only and will be adjusted based on the actual initial public offering price and other
terms of this offering determined at pricing, the actual tax withholding rate, as well as the actual amount of
RSUs settled in connection with this offering (including after accounting for forfeitures prior to the settlement
date).
(4) Working capital is defined as total current assets less total current liabilities. See our unaudited interim
consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this prospectus for further
details regarding our current assets and current liabilities.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We use certain non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the performance measures in our consolidated
financial statements, which are presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include
non-GAAP operating loss and non-GAAP net loss. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and
operational decision-making and as a means to assist us in evaluating period-to-period comparisons. By excluding
certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core operating results, we believe that non-GAAP operating
loss and non-GAAP net loss provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. Accordingly,
we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors and others because they allow for additional
information with respect to financial measures used by management in its financial and operational decision-making
and they may be used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our
business. However, there are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures, and these
non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, our financial
results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate
these non-GAAP financial measures differently or not at all, which reduces their usefulness as comparative
measures.
Non-GAAP Operating Loss
We define non-GAAP operating loss as operating loss presented in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude
stock-based compensation expenses. We have presented non-GAAP operating loss because we consider non-GAAP
operating loss to be a useful metric for investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating our
operating performance because it excludes the impact of stock-based compensation, a non-cash charge that can vary
from period to period as such variations are unrelated to our core operating performance. This metric also provides
investors and other users of our financial information with an additional tool to compare business performance
across companies and periods, while eliminating the effects of items that may vary for different companies for
reasons unrelated to core operating performance.
21
Table of Contents
A reconciliation of our GAAP operating loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-
GAAP operating loss is presented below&#58;
Year Ended December 31,
2025
2024
(in thousands)
GAAP operating loss .................................................................................................
$ (145,862)
$ (101,438)
Add&#58; Stock-based compensation expense ..................................................................
49,767
58,564
Non-GAAP operating loss .........................................................................................
$ (96,095)
$ (42,874)
Non-GAAP Net Loss
We monitor non-GAAP net loss for planning and performance measurement purposes. We define non-GAAP
net loss as net loss reported on our consolidated statements of operations, excluding the impact of stock-based
compensation expenses and change in fair value (extinguishment) of forward contract liability. We have presented
non-GAAP net loss because we believe that the exclusion of these charges allows for a more relevant comparison of
our results of operations to other companies in our industry and facilitates period-to-period comparisons as it
eliminates the effect of certain factors unrelated to our overall operating performance. Our calculation of non-GAAP
net loss does not currently include the tax effects of the stock-based compensation expense adjustment because such
tax effects have not been material to date.
A reconciliation of our GAAP net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to our non-
GAAP net loss is presented below&#58;
Year Ended December 31,
2025
2024
(in thousands)
GAAP net income (loss) ............................................................................................
$ 237,827
$ (481,602)
Add&#58; Stock-based compensation expense (1) ...............................................................
49,767
58,564
Add&#58; Change in fair value (extinguishment) of forward contract liability ................
(363,336)
401,264
Non-GAAP net loss ...................................................................................................
$ (75,742)
$ (21,774)
_______________
(1) Non-GAAP net loss does not include the tax effects of the stock-based compensation expense adjustment
because such tax effects were not material during the periods presented.
22
Table of Contents
RISK FACTORS
Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks
described below as well as the other information in this prospectus, including our consolidated financial statements
and the notes thereto, and the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," before deciding whether to invest in our Class A common stock. The occurrence of any of
the events or developments described below may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects. In such an event, the price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of
your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not
material may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry
We may not sustain our growth rate, and we may not be able to manage future growth effectively.
We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our revenue increased from $290.3 million
for the year ended December 31, 2024 to $510.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2025. We may not achieve
similar growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on our results of operations for any prior quarterly or
annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue
growth, our financial results could suffer, and our stock price could decline.
To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we
must effectively, among other things&#58;
&#8226; recruit, hire, train, and manage additional qualified personnel for our engineering, security, operations,
manufacturing, cloud, and data center activities&#59;
&#8226; continue to make significant investments in our new and existing products&#59;
&#8226; invest in long-term research and development to remain at the forefront of innovation&#59;
&#8226; improve and scale our sales, marketing and go-to-market functions&#59;
&#8226; improve and scale our manufacturing, supply chain, operations, and data center capacity procurement, fit-
out, and deployment functions&#59; and
&#8226; improve and scale our administrative, financial, legal and compliance functions, and operational systems,
procedures, and controls.
Our future growth is dependent on our ability to meet the needs of new customers and the expanding needs of
our existing customers as their use of our solutions and services grows, as well as our ability to fulfill existing orders
on their committed delivery schedules. As sales of our offerings grow, we will need to devote additional resources to
expanding, improving, and maintaining our infrastructure, including our hardware, software, cybersecurity, and
cloud infrastructure, and integrating with third-party applications and partner platforms and marketplaces. In
addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems and our services organization, including
customer support, to serve our growing customer base, and to improve our IT and financial infrastructure, operating
and administrative systems, and our ability to effectively manage headcount, capital, and processes, including by
reducing costs and inefficiencies. Importantly, we will need to substantially expand our manufacturing capacity and
supply chain, and increase our rate of data center capacity and build-out. Any failure of, or delay in, these efforts
could result in impaired product performance and reduced customer satisfaction, and in some cases breach of our
contractual obligations, which would negatively impact our revenue growth and our reputation. We may not be
successful in developing or implementing these technologies and business operations. In addition, it takes a
significant amount of time and capital to plan, develop, and test improvements to our technologies and
infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such
23
Table of Contents
improvements. In some circumstances, we may also choose to scale our technology through the acquisition of
complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, which may divert
management's time and resources. To the extent that we cannot or do not effectively scale our operations to meet the
needs of our growing customer base and to maintain performance and manufacturing capacity as our customers
expand their use of our offerings, we will not be able to grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce
or terminate use of our solutions, our current and potential customers may seek more readily available alternatives,
and we will be unable to compete as effectively, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects may be harmed.
In addition, certain of our customer agreements, including the MRA with OpenAI (each as defined in the
section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"), contain
exclusivity provisions that restrict us from supporting, collaborating with, and&#47;or selling certain products and
services to certain named competitors of such customers. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing strategic
and revenue opportunities with major technology companies that are leading participants in the AI industry, limit
our ability to diversify our customer base and revenue streams, and negatively impact our growth opportunities.
If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market
opportunities or develop new products, and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality,
execute our business plan, or respond to competitive pressures, which may harm our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects.
We have a history of generating net losses, and if we are unable to achieve adequate revenue growth while our
expenses increase, we may not achieve and maintain profitability in the future.
We earned net income of $237.8 million and incurred net loss of $481.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, but have a history of generating net losses. We incurred non-GAAP net
loss of $75.7 million in 2025 and $21.8 million in 2024, after excluding the impact of stock-based compensation
expense and change in fair value (extinguishment) of forward contract liability from our GAAP net income (loss).
For more information and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP net loss to net income (loss), see the section titled "--
Non-GAAP Financial Measures." As of December 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $905.3 million .
These losses and our accumulated deficit are a result of the substantial investments we have made to grow our
business. We expect our costs will increase over time and our losses may continue if such increases in costs are not
more than fully offset by increases in our revenue. We expect to continue to invest significant additional funds in
expanding our business and research and development activities as we continue to develop new products. We
launched our cloud-based inference offering in 2024, which required new investments in cloud infrastructure and
data center capacity that we historically did not need for hardware system sales. We expect to significantly increase
our investments in cloud infrastructure and data centers to enable growth in our inference service. We also expect to
incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of our growth and expect our costs to increase to
support our operations as a public company. Moreover, during the quarter and year in which this offering is
completed, we will begin recording stock-based compensation expense for RSUs and PRSUs that we have granted
to our service providers, which generally vest upon the satisfaction of both service- or market-based and liquidity-
based vesting conditions occurring before the award's expiration date. The liquidity-based vesting condition for such
RSUs and PRSUs will be satisfied in connection with this offering, resulting in significant increases to our stock-
based compensation expense.
If our revenue or revenue growth rate declines or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial
performance will be adversely affected. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future
periods in order to achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot successfully grow our revenue at a rate that
exceeds the costs associated with our business, we will not be able to achieve and maintain profitability, and the
trading price of our Class A common stock could decline.
24
Table of Contents
We have a limited operating history at our current scale, and we may have difficulty evaluating our current
business and accurately predicting our future revenue for the purpose of appropriately budgeting and adjusting
our expenses.
We have a relatively short history operating our business at our current scale and have grown rapidly during that
time. We were established in 2016 and began generating revenue in 2019. Prior to 2023, we had limited revenue.
Our limited operating experience at our current scale, a dynamic and rapidly evolving market in which we sell our
products, our dependence on a limited number of customers, our limited history building and selling access to our
cloud-based platform, the timing of large hardware systems sales, as well as numerous other factors beyond our
control, could impede our ability to forecast quarterly and annual revenue accurately and may make it difficult to
evaluate our current business, prospects, and other trends. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter,
risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries and sectors,
such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. Any predictions about our future financial performance may not
be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable or established
market. As a result, we could experience budgeting and cash flow management problems, unexpected fluctuations in
our results of operations, and other challenges, any of which could make it difficult for us to achieve and maintain
profitability and could increase the volatility of the price of our Class A common stock. If our assumptions regarding
these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or change due to fluctuations in our markets, any material reduction in AI
spending, changes in applicable regulatory frameworks, changes in demand for specialized AI cloud infrastructure
and custom AI accelerators, or otherwise, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our financial condition
and results of operations could differ significantly from our expectations and our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects would be adversely affected. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in
addressing these and other challenges we may face in the future. The risks associated with having a limited
operating history may be exacerbated by current macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions discussed herein.
A substantial portion of our revenue has been, and is expected to continue to be, driven by a limited number of
customers. A reduction in demand from, or a material adverse development in our relationship with any of our
significant customers, including OpenAI, G42, MBZUAI, and AWS, or our failure to meet our obligations under
the MRA with OpenAI, would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
A substantial portion of our revenue is driven by a limited number of customers. Group 42 Holding Ltd
(together with its affiliates, "G42") accounted for 24.0% and 85.0% of our total revenue for the years ended
December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and in the year ended December 31, 2025, Mohamed bin Zayed
University of Artificial Intelligence ("MBZUAI") accounted for 62.0% of our total revenue. I n December 2025, we
entered into the MRA with OpenAI, which represents a substantial portion of our projected revenues over the next
several years .
Our dependence on our relationships with OpenAI, G42, and MBZUAI subjects us to a number of risks. Any
negative changes in demand from OpenAI, G42, or MBZUAI, in their ability or willingness to perform under their
contracts with us, in laws or regulations applicable to OpenAI, G42 or MBZUAI, or the United Arab Emirates, or in
our broader strategic relationship with OpenAI, G42, or MBZUAI would harm our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects. Even if OpenAI, G42, and MBZUAI remain satisfied with our offerings, it is
possible that they will no longer need to purchase additional AI compute or services at the same quantity as prior
periods, or that their ability to purchase our offerings may change for reasons outside of their control. OpenAI, G42,
or MBZUAI may also choose to purchase more of their AI compute from our competitors.
In addition, under the MRA with OpenAI, unless otherwise agreed to, we are required to deliver capacity
tranches across specified numbers of data centers with minimum capacity thresholds upon certain time-based
milestones. If we fail to deliver such capacity on the stated timelines, or if we experience a certain level of failure
with respect to our service levels, OpenAI has the right to terminate a portion or all of the agreement. In addition,
pursuant to the MRA with OpenAI, we received the $1.0 billion Working Capital Loan (as defined in the section
titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). The Working
Capital Loan has a maturity date of no later than December 31, 2032, and is scheduled to be repaid in equal
amortized installments over a three-year term, commencing after the delivery of the final tranche of the initial 250
25
Table of Contents
MW of capacity. Interest accrues on the outstanding principal balance at a rate of 6% per annum&#59; provided that
interest may be waived under certain circumstances . If the MRA is terminated for any reason other than OpenAI's
material uncured breach, or if certain trigger events occur, OpenAI may direct the bank to cease complying with our
instructions regarding the Working Capital Loan funds and may instead control the disposition of funds in the
account, and we may be required to immediately repay the outstanding principal balance of the Working Capital
Loan together with accrued interest. Our failure to perform under the MRA would harm our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Further, as of December 31, 2025, one customer (MBZUAI) accounted for 77.9% of our accounts receivable
balance. As of December 31, 2024 , one customer (G42) accounted for 91.0% of our accounts receivable balance.
This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and our
sensitivity to any material adverse developments experienced by, or in our relationships with, our significant
customers. G42 and MBZUAI are considered related parties with respect to each other as defined by Accounting
Standards Codification 850, Related Party Disclosures . The loss of, any substantial reduction in sales to, or the
default on payments by, any of our significant customers would harm our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects.
In March 2026, we signed a term sheet with AWS, under which AWS will become the first hyperscaler to
deploy Cerebras in its own data centers. The term sheet, which is binding with respect to pricing, exclusivity,
minimum capacity, and certain other protections in favor of AWS, contemplates a multi-year strategic collaboration
to deploy AI inference compute infrastructure and related services, and includes a binding initial multi-year lease.
The term sheet also includes a binding commitment for us to issue a warrant to purchase up to 2,696,678 shares of
our Class N common stock to AWS, at an exercise price of $100.00 per share, with vesting tied to product purchases
in volumes substantially beyond the initial lease, as well as certain other triggers. Although the term sheet is binding
with respect to such purchasing, leasing, and warrant terms, we must still negotiate and execute definitive
agreements with AWS. It is possible that we may have disagreement on the terms, the outcome of which may be
unfavorable to us or result in the failure to reach a definitive agreement. In addition, if future product purchases or
leases by AWS under this agreement increase as contemplated by our minimum capacity commitments to AWS, this
agreement may account for a material percentage of our revenue in the future. In such case, any negative
developments in our relationship with AWS, including any decrease in sales or our failure to perform under the term
sheet or definitive agreements, would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Our revenue historically has been derived from sales of o ur hardware systems. We are in the early stages of
delivering our cloud-based offerings, the market for which is nascent and evolving rapidly, and which require
significant data center capacity and capital investments for which we expect to require significant additional
capital. There is no assurance that we will be able to sustain or increase revenue from these efforts.
Our revenue historically has been derived from sales of our hardware systems. In August 2024, we introduced
our inference cloud service. We are only in the early stages of monetizing our cloud-based offerings, and we may
not be able to grow these efforts into a sustainable part of our business. Additionally, we may not realize all of the
benefits from our cloud-based offerings that we expect to achieve, or it may be more costly to do so than we
anticipate, including as a result of substantial costs associated with data center and cloud infrastructure, which could
negatively impact our cash flows and profitability. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, challenges
in compute capacity planning and allocation, as well as accurate financial planning and forecasting with the
changing mix of offerings in our business model. For example, many customers or prospective customers of this
offering are startups, with capital intensive needs, that may not succeed. In addition, the difference in contract length
for our data centers, which are longer term with limited ability to terminate, versus our inference customer
agreements, which are typically a mix of consumption-based pricing or shorter term dedicated capacity
arrangements, creates further unpredictability in our results of operations. In addition, our cloud-based agreements
may be terminated, not renewed, or renewed on less favorable terms, necessitating us to resell the idle capacity on an
expedited basis. This may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them
difficult to predict.
26
Table of Contents
We intend to continue to invest significantly in infrastructure as well as sales and marketing efforts related to
our cloud-based offerings. This investment requires significant capital and other expenditures, which would
adversely impact cash flows from operations, gross margins, and operating margins in certain periods, particularly in
the near term, and may not ultimately grow our business or result in long-term profitability. We expect to require
significant additional capital to fund our cloud offerings and support our growth. For example, significant upfront
costs, prepayments, and&#47;or financial guarantees may be required to procure data centers that are necessary for our
cloud offerings. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. While we have
historically been able to fund capital expenditures from cash generated from operations, prepayments and loans from
certain customers, and equity financings, many factors could materially reduce the cash available from our
operations, impede our ability to raise additional capital, or significantly increase our capital expenditure
requirements, which may result in the inability to fund the necessary or desired level of capital expenditures. Under
the MRA with OpenAI, OpenAI has provided us with the $1.0 billion Working Capital Loan to accelerate the
development and build out of services, technology, and manufacturing. If the MRA is terminated for any reason
other than OpenAI's material uncured breach, or if certain trigger events occur, OpenAI may direct the bank to cease
complying with our instructions regarding the Working Capital Loan funds and may instead control the disposition
of funds in the account during the continuance of such trigger events and pursuant to the terms of the MRA, and we
may be required to immediately repay the outstanding principal balance of the Working Capital Loan together with
accrued interest. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. If
we raise additional funds through equity or convertible debt issuances, our existing stockholders may suffer
significant dilution and these securities could have rights, preferences, and privileges that are superior to those of
holders of our Class A common stock. If we obtain additional funds through debt financing, we may not be able to
obtain such financing on terms favorable to us. Further, the current global macroeconomic environment and other
factors discussed herein could make it more difficult to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. Such
terms may involve restrictive covenants making it difficult to engage in capital raising activities and pursue business
opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms
satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to
business challenges could be significantly impaired and our business may be adversely affected, requiring us to
delay, reduce, or eliminate some or all of our operations.
Our cloud-based offerings are subject to certain risks and challenges. Unfavorable or uncertain conditions in the
training or inference cloud market, as well as for AI infrastructure, may cause fluctuations in our results of
operations.
Our offerings include a cloud-based platform, where customers can purchase our AI computing solutions on a
consumption-based or dedicated capacity model. This business model is intended to allow customers to choose the
solution that best aligns with their budgetary, security, and scalability requirements. The risks and challenges of a
cloud-based business model may be different from selling our products for on-premises use. For instance, building
and scaling a cloud-based platform requires us to make significant capital expenditures to manufacture more
hardware systems, to lease data centers with sufficient power and cooling infrastructures, and to maintain sufficient
units on hand, which requires resources to be reallocated from producing units that could otherwise be sold to
customers for on-premises use. In order to support a cloud-based business model, we also incur additional IT and
personnel costs to service and manage our clusters, including managing and optimizing capacity allocations and
utilization rates, as well as rely on third-party infrastructure, such as AWS for certain data transmission needs. The
success of our cloud-based offering may further be impacted by our ability to obtain or maintain industry security
certifications for our platform and, with respect to public sector customers, our ability to navigate factors such as
budget cycles, procurement rules, eligibility criteria, and domestic preference rules. There is no assurance that
investments in our cloud-based platform will lead to increased revenue as compared to other business models. In
addition, we introduced our cloud-based inference offering in 2024. Such product presents new and additional risks
to us, including substantially increasing the number of users accessing our cloud, which may increase cybersecurity
and compliance risk as well as risk of outages due to overcapacity or otherwise.
Additionally, if domestic and global economic conditions worsen, or adoption, use, and commercialization of
AI technology, particularly of the large models that are currently dominating the market, do not progress as
expected, overall spending may be reduced, which could adversely impact demand for our solutions in these cloud
27
Table of Contents
and AI infrastructure markets and we may not realize our expected growth rates. Furthermore, changes to data
privacy laws regarding cross-border transmission of data, as well as customers' data residency and data sovereignty
expectations, may disproportionately impact cloud-based platforms. In such cases, we may be left with excess units
in our clouds and data center leases and costs that we cannot terminate or recoup. Even if the demand for cloud and
AI-related infrastructure develops in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely,
competitively priced, market-accepted solutions or personnel available to timely meet our customers' needs, we may
miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be
harmed.
If our data center providers fail to meet the requirements of our business, or if the data center facilities
experience interruption, damage, or a security breach, our ability to provide access to our infrastructure and
maintain the performance of our network could be negatively impacted.
We lease space in or otherwise license use of third-party data centers located in the United States and Canada ,
and are in the process of expanding to other countries. Our business is reliant on these data center facilities. Because
we lease or license use of this data center space, we do not control the operation of these third-party facilities.
Consequently, we could be subject to service disruptions as well as failures to provide adequate support for reasons
that are outside of our direct control. Our data center facilities and network infrastructure are vulnerable to damage
or interruption from a variety of sources including earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, environmental factors, such
as air and water temperature, humidity, and dust, system failures, computer and other cybersecurity vulnerabilities,
physical or electronic break-ins, human error, malfeasance or interference, including by employees, former
employees, or contractors, as well terrorist acts and other catastrophic events.
We and the data center facilities we lease space in or license use of have experienced, and may in the future
experience, disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including availability
or sufficiency of power, infrastructure changes, environmental factors, and capacity constraints, occasionally due to
an overwhelming number of customers accessing our infrastructure simultaneously. Our third-party data centers and
network infrastructure may also be subject to cybersecurity attacks, including supply chain attacks, due to the
actions of outside parties or human error, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities, insufficient
cybersecurity controls, a combination of these, or otherwise, which may cause service outages and otherwise impact
our ability to provide our solutions and services. While we review the security measures of our third-party data
centers, we cannot ensure that these measures will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity attack or to protect the
continued operation of our platform in the event of a cybersecurity attack, and any impact to our solutions and
services may also impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Data center facilities housing our network infrastructure may also be subject to local administrative actions,
changes to legal or permitting requirements, labor disputes, litigation to stop, limit, or delay operations, and other
legal challenges, including local government agencies seeking to gain access to customer accounts for law
enforcement or other reasons. The imposition of tariffs, regulatory requirements, and increased focus on data
sovereignty and data localization requirements around the world could also impact our business model with respect
to the storage, management, and transfer of data, and may impact where we choose to lease data centers, which can
affect our opportunities for international expansion. Additionally, government authorities have in the past sought to
restrict data center development based on environmental considerations and have imposed moratoria on data center
development, citing concerns about energy usage, requiring new data centers to meet energy efficiency
requirements. We may face higher costs from any laws requiring enhanced energy efficiency measures, changes to
cooling systems, caps on energy usage, land use restrictions, limitations on back-up power sources, or other
environmental requirements. Because data center agreements tend to have long terms and high upfront costs, any
changes in regulations, government actions, customer preferences, or otherwise that occur after an investment is
made into a data center could cause significant financial loss. In addition, while we have entered into various
agreements for the lease of data center space, equipment, maintenance, and other services, those third parties could
fail to deliver on their contractual obligations under those agreements, including agreements to provide us with
certain data, equipment, and utilities information required to run our business. Furthermore, we require the data
centers we lease to have certain highly specific attributes in order to effectively run our business. For example, these
state-of-the art data centers require networking equipment, high-speed interconnects, enhanced access to power, and
28
Table of Contents
liquid cooling infrastructures. In many cases, these third-party data centers are required to undergo extensive
retrofitting and improvement efforts, including to incorporate novel developments in our industry, which are time
consuming, expensive, and less efficient than if we were to lease from spaces already designed for our operations,
and which may not ultimately be successful in meeting all of our requirements. If third parties fail to successfully
deliver on such performance requirements, our ability to maintain the performance of our network would be
negatively impacted. In addition, if data center operators are delayed in making the facilities available to us, we may
not be able to fulfill our customer contractual obligations in a timely manner, causing us financial and reputational
harm.
Other factors, many of which are beyond our control, that can affect the delivery, performance, and availability
of our platform include&#58;
&#8226; the development, maintenance, and functioning of the infrastructure of the internet as a whole&#59;
&#8226; the performance and availability of third-party telecommunications services with the necessary speed, data
capacity, and security for providing reliable internet access and services&#59;
&#8226; the success or failure of our redundancy systems&#59;
&#8226; the success or failure of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans&#59;
&#8226; decisions by the owners and operators of the data center facilities where our infrastructure is installed or by
global telecommunications service provider partners who provide us with network bandwidth to terminate
our contracts, discontinue services to us, shut down operations or facilities, increase prices, change service
levels, limit bandwidth, declare bankruptcy, breach their contracts with us, or prioritize the traffic of other
parties&#59;
&#8226; our ability to enter into data center agreements and leases according to our business needs and on terms and
with counterparties acceptable to us&#59;
&#8226; changing regulations and customer preferences with respect to data privacy, sovereignty, and localization&#59;
and
&#8226; changing sentiment by government regulators relating to data center development, including in response to
public concerns regarding environmental impact and development and power costs, which may result in
restrictive government regulation or otherwise impact the future construction of additional data centers.
In addition, the MRA with OpenAI and most of our customer agreements and terms of service contain service-
level commitments and capacity ramp schedules. If we are unable to meet the stated service-level commitments or
capacity ramp schedules due to data center downtime, performance problems, or defects, we may be contractually
obligated to provide the affected customers with service credits or refunds, or be subject to breach of contract
damages, which could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods in which any issues occur and the
credits or refunds are applied or when damages are awarded. As a result of degradation of service and interruptions
to our platform, we have provided, and may continue to provide, service credits and&#47;or refunds to certain of our
affected customers. Under the MRA, if we experience a certain level of failure with respect to such service levels,
OpenAI has the right to terminate a portion or all of the agreement. We could also face customer terminations with
refunds of prepaid amounts, which could significantly affect our results of operations. Any failures to achieve or
maintain the performance standards required under the MRA or other customer agreements would harm our business
and result in substantial financial penalties, loss of contractual protections, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our
reputation, and substantial harm to our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
The occurrence of any of these factors, or our inability to efficiently and cost-effectively fix such errors or other
problems that may be identified, could damage our reputation, negatively impact our relationship with our
customers, or otherwise materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
29
Table of Contents
If we are unable to secure data center capacity when needed or at affordable rates, including the cost of power, or
do not accurately plan for and manage our infrastructure capacity requirements, our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
We plan investment levels for our cloud-based offerings based on estimates of future customer demand and
future anticipated rates of growth. In recent periods, our cloud services and license support expenses have grown to
meet current and expected demand for our inference solutions, including investments to increase our data center
capacity and to establish data centers in new geographic locations. In connection with these investments, we entered,
and expect to continue to enter, into long-term lease commitments with third-party data center providers and other
significant commitments with suppliers, including investments in scaling up our contract manufacturers. If we
underestimate customer demand or our data center capacity needs, we may face shortages of available infrastructure,
limiting our ability to support customer growth and potentially causing us to lose business to competitors.
Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand or our data center capacity needs, we could be locked into multi-
year commitments for excess data center space, or be required to pay significant contract termination fees to early
exit such obligations. Further, we typically depreciate our assets over their estimated useful lives, which could be
shortened should our inference solutions and related strategy change, which could harm our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects.
In contrast to the long-term data center commitments, our customer agreements for cloud-based offerings have
shorter terms, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. For example, the MRA with OpenAI
provides for multi-year initial capacity commitments along with potential multi-year renewal terms, but there can be
no assurance that OpenAI will renew these commitments or that we will be able to fully utilize the capacity if
OpenAI elects not to renew. Further, the volatility of the industry we operate in makes it difficult for us and our
customers to accurately forecast needs. Data centers in geographies that we desire may also be unavailable on the
timing we require, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Under the MRA, unless otherwise agreed to, we are
required to deliver capacity tranches across specified numbers of data centers with minimum capacity thresholds per
campus, which may constrain our flexibility in selecting data center locations and providers. We are also required to
achieve certain physical and cybersecurity requirements at data centers, which could also limit the pool of available
data center providers or increase our costs.
Moreover, we do not own, or have complete control over the operations of, these data centers, and they may
suffer interruptions in service from events beyond our control, including from acts of government, natural events,
power loss, environmental issues, human error, malfeasance or interference by third parties. Downtime or delays
caused by data center providers may not excuse our service level and delivery obligations to our customers, and
penalties paid by data center providers to us may not make us whole in such situations. In addition, we rely on third-
party suppliers to provide equipment and components required to outfit these data centers on a timely basis, as well
as contractors for services. Ongoing or future delays or the inability to meet customer demand, including failure to
meet our capacity delivery obligations under the MRA, could cause the loss or delay of revenue, contractual
penalties or terminations, or increase our costs, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our business.
The global energy market is also experiencing disruption, inflation, and volatility pressures, with various
macroeconomic and geopolitical factors contributing to the instability and global power shortage, including conflicts
in the Middle East. Furthermore, the cost of power to run these data centers is a significant portion of the overall
operating expenses. We have faced, and may continue to face, rising costs for data center energy demands. If we
cannot procure power at reasonable prices or if our supply of power becomes constrained, our business, financial
condition, results of operation, and prospects will be harmed. There can be no assurance that any measures taken to
identify and implement cost-optimization measures for data center and power usage will be effective in reducing our
costs or that the cost savings will be sufficient to offset rising energy prices .
We may develop our own data centers in the future, rather than relying on third parties, which may result in
additional difficulties. For example, any potential expansion of our data center infrastructure would be complex, and
unanticipated delays in the completion of those projects, including permitting, land and construction issues, and
availability of components may lead to increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, or interruptions in the
delivery or degradation of the quality of our platform. In addition, there may be issues related to this infrastructure
30
Table of Contents
that are not identified during the testing phases of design and implementation, which may only become evident after
we have started to fully utilize the underlying equipment, that could further degrade our platform or increase our
costs. We would also have to invest in expertise in large scale infrastructure projects and hire appropriate talent that
are different from our current employee base.
The market for AI computing solutions is competitive, evolving, and requires scale, and if we do not compete
effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
The market for AI computing solutions is highly competitive and evolving. New technologies and solutions are
rapidly emerging in the markets in which we compete. With respect to hardware, we compete against semiconductor
companies such as NVIDIA Corporation, a dominant market leader, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Intel
Corporation, as well as AI accelerators developed by hyperscalers and private companies. We also compete against
full-service cloud service providers such as Amazon.com, Inc. (AWS), Microsoft Corporation (Azure), Alphabet
Inc. (Google Cloud Platform), and Oracle Corporation, as well as AI-optimized specialized clouds such as
CoreWeave, Inc. and other neo-clouds. Certain of our competitors are also current or prospective customers. Many
of these companies are large, well established, and have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, many
companies, including potential customers such as but not limited to hyperscalers and foundation model builders,
have developed or are developing their own AI computing solutions based on current or new technologies, and are
using such solutions internally and monetizing them with external customers, in both instances in ways that compete
with our product and service offerings. Many of our current and potential competitors benefit from competitive
advantages over us, such as prominent and cutting-edge technology and software stacks designed to keep out new
market entrants, greater name recognition, established developer communities, established engineering teams with
key industry knowledge, longer operating histories, greater financial assets, greater ability to scale up and down with
customer demand, more data center capacity and ability to purchase land to build larger and more custom data
centers with lower cost of power, more varied product offerings, larger sales and marketing resources, more
established relationships, including relationships and investments among AI ecosystem participants, wider
geographic presence or larger, more established customer bases, more comprehensive and mature intellectual
property portfolios and patent protections, a more robust supply chain, including favorable contracts with suppliers
and ability to influence or fully capture our key suppliers, and other resources. These competitors may also be able
to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and customer trends, be better able to
secure suppliers or may have priority access to suppliers, and obtain sufficient research and development operations,
design, manufacturing, and fabrication solutions, foundry and assembly and test capacity than we can, which may
harm our business. Competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they
may offer additional products, services, or other incentives that we may be unable to match. Additionally, while we
compete against many parties, we also operate in a market with a dominant incumbent. This introduces a number of
competitive pressures, including that it is more challenging to gain market awareness of our products, or gain market
share. A dominant incumbent also has the ability to influence the direction of the market and user community in
ways that are advantageous to them. In such cases, we have less visibility to be able to accurately predict the
direction of the market, and such direction may not be consistent with our strengths and roadmap. If we cannot
influence the AI community to engage with our offerings instead, or if we are unable to compete effectively, or are
unable to convert new customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be
harmed.
Additionally, customer expectations and requirements are rapidly evolving. As a result, some of our competitors
may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. For example, our software offering
is currently optimized around certain AI models, such as LLMs and multimodal vision models. Should AI model
architectures significantly change, it may take us time to build out the software support, and we may lose potential
or current customers and developers in the interim.
While we believe that our current processor design and associated software are optimized for a variety of AI and
high-performance computing workloads, including our ability to continue to scale performance through investments
in our current architectures, disruptive technologies in compute, including "more than Moore" technologies and
innovations, have the potential to severely disrupt current computer processing technologies, including ours. While
we continue to invest in advanced system and semiconductor techniques, and related software development, we may
31
Table of Contents
not be able to adapt our technologies, intellectual property, and expertise to such new paradigms, while our
established competitors and new entrants specializing in such technologies may. If we are unable to innovate,
participate in, and leverage such new fields, or if our solutions are not compatible with other AI solutions, our
solutions may become obsolete, we may lose market share and customers, and our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
Further, we sell a premium solution, and our competitors' solutions may be less expensive to purchase by
certain measures, which may limit the number of customers who can or will buy our product. While the market in
which we operate is evolving rapidly, as it matures, AI computing solutions may become increasingly
commoditized, where many different solutions become sufficient for customer requirements. Factors that may
contribute to commoditization include advances in AI compute, advances in or simplifications of AI model
architectures that require less sophisticated compute, and consumer preferences, which alone or in combination with
other factors may lead to price erosion. If we are unable to establish and maintain a competitive lead that supports
premium pricing or offset price reductions with increased sales, our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects may be harmed.
We may also experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices by our competitors that may impede our
growth, cause us to incur additional expense, or otherwise harm our business. For example, some of these
competitors may use their market power to dissuade potential or current customers from purchasing from us or
potential or current suppliers from working with us. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships
among themselves or with third parties, make equity investments in customers and partners, or acquire companies
that provide similar products or services as ours, that further their ability to create a closed ecosystem or to acquire
talent. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and
development costs, and strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry.
Certain of our competitors have active merger and acquisition pipelines and are well-funded to inorganically
accelerate their product development. In addition, companies that are strategic partners, vendors, or customers may
acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry
consolidation has and may continue to result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source
vendors for customers. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting or margin
limiting initiatives, or to increase our advertising and other expenses to attract and retain customers in response to
competitive pressures. Any of these factors, alone or in combination with others, may harm our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects, and result in a loss of market share and an increase in pricing
pressure.
The broader adoption, use, and commercialization of AI technology, and the continued rapid pace of
developments in the AI field, are inherently uncertain. If we are unable to expand the application of our
offerings, keep up with evolving AI technology requirements, or if new offerings we develop and introduce into
the market are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be
harmed.
Our success depends on our ability to attract new customers and users to our offerings, which in turn depends
on the competitiveness and desirability of our offerings. AI has been developing at a rapid pace, and continues to
evolve and change. As demand continues for AI services, AI providers, including our customers, have sought
increased compute capacity to enable advancements in their AI models and service the demands of end users. We
expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products or services
that may be lower priced than ours, may be better optimized than our offerings for emerging technologies, or may
provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products or services. Additionally, prospective
or existing customers may influence our product roadmap by requiring features optimal for their particular use case.
If we are unable to adapt to meet customers' requirements, they may use competitive offerings or internal solutions
that eliminate reliance on third-party providers. Moreover, prioritizing development of such features may require
significant engineering resources and may not be compatible with the requirements of other customers, which could
impact overall adoption of our platform.
32
Table of Contents
In addition to releasing next generation versions of existing products, our business strategy may involve
introducing new offerings to the market, which are subject to different risks and uncertainties. There can be no
assurance that such new offerings will be broadly accepted. For instance, we released our inference solution in 2024,
and if we fail to win broad customer adoption, we will be unable to participate in a significant segment of the AI
market. Our customers, in particular for our cloud-based offerings, may also not be able to accurately forecast their
AI compute needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to enter into long-term contracts or even if we do, we may be
asked by customers to revise contracts later if their circumstances change. If contracts are terminated, breached, or
not renewed, we may have large quantities of idle systems in our cloud, that take time to resell. In addition, if market
demand for high-speed inference, including for real-time, agent-based, or other similar applications, does not exist
or increase as expected, our inference solution may not be successful. The competitive landscape, customer
preferences, market pressures, and technical and product challenges for new products or services may be different
from our existing offerings. We can provide no assurance that new product offerings will achieve success on a
timely basis, or at all. Evolving legal and regulatory landscape may also influence customer preferences. For
example, prospective customers may favor closed-source AI model providers who provide indemnification against
copyright infringement claims as compared to open source AI models, and such biases may change as the current
cohort of AI copyright infringement litigation proceed through the courts. If our solutions do not allow us or our
customers to comply with the latest regulatory requirements, sales of our solutions and services to existing
customers may decrease and new customers will be less likely to adopt our offerings.
Many of our competitors use different semiconductor compute architectures, platforms, tools, and technology
stacks from ours in their products and services, including some, like GPUs, that are dominant in the industry. AI
model developers have and may continue to design and optimize AI models for such incumbent technologies rather
than our solutions. The complexity and expense associated with our offerings generally require a lengthy customer
education, evaluation, and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote
significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or
revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. Potential customers may also be unwilling or unable
to convert from legacy AI solutions to our solution, and we may be unable to attract new customers. If new
technologies emerge that limit or eliminate reliance on AI cloud platform providers like us, or that enable our
competitors to deliver competitive services at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely,
such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. Current customers may further be dissatisfied or
stop purchasing our offerings if our products or services are not compatible with or able to be used in combination
with other AI solutions, including those of our competitors.
In addition, our hardware systems require data centers with sufficient power, equipment, and cooling
infrastructures, which may not be readily available to us or our customers. In the case of our cloud-based offerings,
customers may require our data centers to be located in certain jurisdictions for regulatory and performance reasons,
which sites may not be readily available. This may cause customers to delay purchases or delay acceptance of
delivery of previously purchased goods, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations, including
timing of revenue recognition.
Currently, our AI computing solution is focused on accelerating training and inference for GenAI model
architectures, including LLMs and multimodal vision models. Part of our success will depend on our ability to
expand the application of our solution to other areas of use, such as image and video generation models, robotics
models, and world models, and new AI application areas yet to be discovered, as well as new or expanded verticals.
If we are unable to service and capture such use cases, we may lose market share and not be able to grow our
business.
Our offerings must also integrate with a variety of network, hardware, storage, infrastructure, and software
technologies, such as physical integrations at the data centers and API integrations with customer products, and we
need to continuously modify and enhance the capabilities of our offerings to adapt to changes and innovation in
these technologies. If our customers widely adopt new technologies or change their product offerings, we may need
to redesign parts of our offerings to work with those new technologies. These development efforts may require
significant engineering, marketing, and sales resources, all of which would affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects. Any failure of our infrastructure's capabilities to operate effectively with future
33
Table of Contents
technologies and software platforms could reduce the demand for our offerings. If we are unable to respond to these
changes in a cost-effective and timely manner, our offerings may become less marketable and less competitive or
obsolete, and our business may be harmed.
If our offerings are not widely adopted, or if we are unable to successfully develop and deploy additional go-to-
market methods or expand the functional areas in which our offerings compete, our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects may be harmed, and we will be unable to grow our business.
We depend on third-party suppliers, including certain sole sources, and substantially all of our manufacturing
services and components are procured on a purchase order basis without capacity or volume commitments, which
may harm our ability to compete, meet customer demand, satisfy customer contracts or bring products to market,
and our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We operate a fabless manufacturing model that utilizes third-party suppliers, such as a third-party wafer
foundry, as well as system assembly and test service providers in a number of countries, including outside the
United States. We depend on one third-party foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
(" TSMC"), to manufacture our proprietary processor using its fabrication equipment and techniques. We purchase
components such as servers, field-programmable gate arrays, network switches, cooling units, interconnects, and
chassis, among many others, from third-party providers. Except for certain assembly, packaging, and testing steps
that we perform internally, we do not assemble, test, or package our products, but instead contract with independent
contract manufacturers. Most of our products are designed to be manufactured in a specific process, typically at one
particular fabrication facility with particular suppliers. In addition, we source a number of the components used in
our products from sole or single-source suppliers, or use a single supplier to perform certain of the processes
involved in the manufacture of the products. Any dispute with a sole or single-source supplier would materially
harm our ability to manufacture our products and accordingly would harm our business. In addition, some of our
components, such as our wafer, have long lead times. As a result, we are highly reliant on our suppliers, and depend
on them to allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our needs, develop products of acceptable quality at
acceptable yields, and deliver those products to us on a timely basis.
Further, we do not generally have long-term capacity commitments with our suppliers, including those that are
sole or single-sourced. Substantially all of our manufacturing services and component orders are currently transacted
on a purchase order basis, and in many instances we negotiate pricing separately for each purchase order, with our
contractors and suppliers having no obligation to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period,
in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. It is
possible that other customers of our suppliers that are larger and better financed than we are, or have long-term
agreements with these suppliers, may induce these suppliers to reallocate capacity to them, which could impair our
ability to secure manufacturing, assembly, and testing capacity that we need for our products. Further, our
competitors may have long-term capacity commitments with our suppliers, and our suppliers may be obligated to
prioritize our competitors under these agreements when supply is limited. Our larger competitors may also leverage
their market power to influence suppliers and disrupt or limit the availability of manufacturing services and
components or cause fluctuations in availability and price for smaller companies in the market. Some of our
suppliers have been delayed in delivering, or have failed to deliver, products and services to us, including due to
shortages in or disruptions to the necessary supply of raw materials, components, and services, logistics and
transport issues, disputes, litigation, and regulatory issues. We are dependent on the availability and cooperation of
our suppliers to manufacture and assemble our products, and our suppliers have not provided assurances that
adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. If our suppliers' operations are curtailed or disrupted, we may
need to seek alternate sources of supply, which may not exist. The lead time needed to identify, qualify, and
establish reliable production at acceptable yields with a new supplier is typically lengthy, and there is often no
readily available alternative supplier. In addition, qualifying new suppliers is often expensive, and they may not
develop products or provide services as cost-effectively as our current suppliers, which could harm our ability to
price our products competitively while achieving our desired margin. These shortages and disruptions may, in turn,
harm our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products to our customers, and may cause us to breach our
agreements with our customers. We have also had to qualify alternative suppliers and have experienced delays in
delivering our products when existing suppliers no longer supported our requirements due to changes in their
34
Table of Contents
business. If one or more of our suppliers no longer manufactures our products, fails to perform its obligations in a
timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, or is obligated to prioritize other entities in a constrained
environment, our ability to bring products to market and to timely deliver products to our customers may be harmed.
Additionally, if our component suppliers cease to, or become unable to, manufacture a component for us, we
may also be forced to make a significant "lifetime" purchase of the affected component or part from an existing
supplier, in order to enable us to meet our customer demand or to re-engineer a product. Significant lifetime
purchases of such discontinued components could significantly increase our inventory and other expenses, such as
insurance costs, and expose us to additional risks, such as the loss of, or damage to, products that may not
subsequently be available to us from an alternative source. In any such circumstances, we may be unable to meet our
customers' demands and may fail to meet our contractual obligations and may need to redesign our products. This
may result in the payment of significant damages by us to our customers and our revenue may decline, harming our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We may also have excess inventory if we
overestimate the "lifetime" purchase quantity, which would result in write-offs.
There are certain components in our products that require long lead times to manufacture and deliver, including
the wafer for our WSE. Accordingly, we must make estimates of demand well in advance of certainty of revenue
and carry sufficient working capital to pay for these and other components. In addition, the yield on components,
including our wafers, is variable and thus we must account for a certain amount of waste when purchasing
components. If our estimates of customer demand are ultimately inaccurate, as we have experienced from time to
time, there could be a significant mismatch between supply and demand. This mismatch has in the past resulted, and
may in the future result, in both product shortages and excess inventory, with a corresponding impact to our results
of operations. If we underestimate our customers' future demand for our products, our suppliers may not have
adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill
orders on a timely basis or in a cost-effective manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or
at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we may lose revenue and market share and our reputation may
be harmed. If we overestimate our customers' future demand, we may have excess inventory with limited or no
resale value, which would harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. To the extent
we increase our manufacturing capacity to fulfill capacity forecasts, our working capital needs will also increase.
Some of our customer agreements provide for, and future customer agreements may also require, certain
remedies if we do not deliver our products and services in a timely manner or by a certain date. If our third-party
suppliers do not perform services or deliver components on our expected timeline, including due to force majeure or
other reasons beyond their control, we may owe damages or incur other liabilities with our customers. In addition,
certain of our customers prepay for hardware purchases and are entitled to refunds of such advances in certain
situations.
Prior to our wafer-scale engine, a full wafer-sized processor had not previously been successfully manufactured
and commercially deployed in high volumes. We worked with TSMC to develop the processes necessary to
manufacture the semiconductor wafers needed for our wafer-scale engine, which involve many complexities and
proprietary technologies. We are currently dependent on TSMC to produce all of the wafers that we use in our
products. We have no formalized long-term supply or allocation commitments from TSMC, and TSMC also
fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, many of whom are significantly larger
than us and purchase considerably more wafers from TSMC than we do. TSMC could reduce or eliminate deliveries
to us on short notice, or raise their prices to us, all of which may result in loss of revenue opportunities, damage our
relationships with our customers, and harm our results of operations and gross margin. Many of our suppliers,
including TSMC, are located in areas of high geopolitical tension, such as Taiwan and South Korea, or in areas
prone to natural disasters, such as earthquakes and typhoons. Any substantial disruption in TSMC's supply of wafers
to us, or in the other contract manufacturing services that we utilize, as a result of a natural disaster, climate change,
water shortages, political unrest, military conflict, geopolitical turmoil, trade tensions, inflation, government orders,
global pandemics or health crises, economic instability, equipment failure, or other causes, may harm our business,
financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
35
Table of Contents
Our supply chain is long, complex, and global, with many interdependencies. Any significant fluctuations of
supply and demand or disruption to our supply chain may harm our ability to manufacture and deliver our
products to our customers.
Our products depend on many different electronic components of varying complexity and raw materials, as well
as software tools for the design of our products. Accordingly, our supply chain is dependent on many aspects of the
global semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical and subject to wide fluctuations of supply and demand as a
result of rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, and frequent
new product introductions, among other reasons. The industry has experienced significant downturns during recent
global recessions, characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, and high inventory levels.
Any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to suppliers. Additionally,
the impact of industry-wide trends on specific segments and suppliers is difficult to predict.
Our products have long and complex bills of materials, with several long lead time components and single-
source suppliers for certain critical components. For example, TSMC fabricates all of our wafers, and switching to a
different foundry would require development of new proprietary processes and technologies, which may be
expensive and increase production time. Some of our suppliers are small and are unable to accommodate
fluctuations in required capacity. In other cases, our requirements represent a small portion of a supplier's business,
and therefore we may not be a priority for such supplier.
Our supply chain is also subject to complex and frequently changing rules and regulations regarding global
trade, such as imports, exports, tariffs, and taxes, as well as the effects of U.S. and foreign government programs and
initiatives regarding the semiconductor supply chain and other geopolitical forces. For example, both the United
States and China have national programs directed toward influencing the future of the global semiconductor
industry, and the effects of such programs on our business are not easily predictable.
Further, force majeure and other events beyond our and our suppliers' control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic
and natural disasters such as earthquakes in Taiwan, have in the past and may in the future result in disruption to
parts of our supply chain, including difficulty procuring wafers and other necessary components in a timely fashion,
with suppliers increasing lead times or placing products on allocation, requiring committed, non-cancelable
purchases and raised prices. Such events may excuse performance of certain suppliers but not excuse our
performance to our customers, which may cause us to incur liabilities.
Transportation disruptions, such as shortages in available cargo capacity or labor availability, changes in
frequency of service, and shipping channel disruptions, may also increase delivery times and costs for materials and
components to our facilities, transfers of our products to our key suppliers, and may affect our ability to timely ship
our products to customers. In addition, sometimes we bear the risk of loss during transportation of components from
our suppliers and products to our customers.
In periods when broad fluctuations or changes in business conditions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact on
our business. We have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations and expect,
in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations due to these changes in business
conditions.
Raw material and component price fluctuations or decreased availability of certain raw materials or components
can increase the cost of our products, impact our ability to meet customer commitments, and may adversely affect
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
The cost of raw materials and components is a key element in the cost of our products, both directly and
indirectly through our suppliers. Our inability to offset material price inflation may harm our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects. Although we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and
components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the
future. Our inability to meet our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under our contracts,
which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to our
36
Table of Contents
customer relationships. Furthermore, increases in the price of certain raw materials may result in increased
production costs and may result in a decrease in our gross margins. We may choose not to, or may not be able to,
pass on such price increases to our customers. In addition, because we primarily outsource manufacturing of our
products, global market trends such as shortage of capacity to fulfill our fabrication needs also may increase our raw
material costs and thus decrease our gross margins.
Dependency on third-party suppliers and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test, or design our products
reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement, and
product delivery schedules and could harm our business.
Except for certain assembly, packaging, and testing steps that we conduct internally, we depend on third-party
suppliers to manufacture, assemble, and test our products, and utilize third-party development tools for design,
simulation, and verification of new products. Further, while we primarily generate intellectual property internally,
we have, on occasion, leveraged certain third parties for software development purposes. We also face several other
risks related to our third-party suppliers that have adversely affected or could adversely affect our ability to meet
customer demand and scale our supply chain, negatively impact longer-term demand for our products and services,
and harm our business or results of operations, including&#58;
&#8226; lack of guaranteed supply of wafer, component, and capacity or decommitment and potential higher wafer
and component prices, from long lead times, incorrectly estimating demand, and failing to place orders with
our suppliers with sufficient quantities or in a timely manner&#894;
&#8226; failure by our foundries or suppliers to procure raw materials or provide adequate levels of manufacturing
or test capacity for our products&#894;
&#8226; failure by our foundries to develop, obtain, or successfully implement high quality process technologies,
including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies
and memory designs needed to manufacture our products&#894;
&#8226; failure by our suppliers to comply with our policies and expectations and emerging regulatory
requirements&#894;
&#8226; limited number and geographic concentration of global suppliers, foundries, contract manufacturers,
assembly, and test providers&#894;
&#8226; loss of a supplier and additional expense and&#47;or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or
other supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss, addition, or change of a
supplier&#894;
&#8226; disputes with or among our suppliers or prospective suppliers, including with respect to intellectual
property infringement or other legal and regulatory matters&#59;
&#8226; lack of direct control over product quantity, quality, and delivery schedules&#894;
&#8226; responsibility or lack of recourse for loss or damage incurred while our products are in transit&#59;
&#8226; failure of our suppliers or their suppliers to supply high-quality products and&#47;or making changes to their
products without our qualification&#894;
&#8226; delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality, and&#47;or higher expenses in the event
our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' or other customers' orders over ours&#894;
&#8226; requirements to place orders that are not cancellable upon changes in demand or requirements to prepay for
supply in advance&#894;
37
Table of Contents
&#8226; low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a foundry's proprietary process
technology&#894;
&#8226; disruptions in manufacturing, assembly, and other processes due to closures related to heat waves,
earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters and electricity conservation efforts&#59; and
&#8226; failure by our third-party software development tools to meet consumer demands for greater functionality
from the design, simulation, and verification of new products or product enhancements.
The complexity of our offerings could result in delays in adoption by our customers, unforeseen expense or
undetected defects, bugs, or security vulnerabilities, which may harm the market acceptance of new products and
services, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, cause significant remediation expenses,
and may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Our AI computing solutions, including both hardware and software, are highly complex to design and
complicated to make, involve novel manufacturing processes, and may contain defects, bugs, or security
vulnerabilities or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to a variety of issues, including design,
fabrication, packaging, materials, or use. Our offerings may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new
versions or enhancements are released, or their release may be delayed due to unforeseen difficulties during product
development. We shipped our first CS-1 system in 2020 and our first CS-2 system in 2021, first introduced our CS-3
system and our inference solutions in 2024, and executed our first substantial scale-up of our data center footprint in
2025. As a result, we and our customers have not had a significant amount of time to gauge the long-term
performance and reliability of our offerings. If our AI solutions, third-party components used in our products, the AI
models we create or train on behalf of our customers, third-party models that we host in our cloud, or our inference
output contain defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities or have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems, we may not be
able to successfully design workarounds or resolve the issues in a timely manner. For example, the AI models that
we host or train may not generate the responses that our customers want or expect, or may be otherwise flawed, and
our inference speed or throughput may be lower than what customers desire. Any defects discovered in our
offerings, or any components included in our products, prior to their shipping or release could delay our ability to
deliver products or services to our customers. Further, defects in our products, services, the AI models we build or
help train, or the AI models that we host, may only be discovered after a product or model has been shipped,
released, or used by our customers. Our offerings may also have undiscovered vulnerabilities that could be exploited
by hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software
programs, thereby exposing our customers to potential adverse consequences. Additionally, our hardware products
may be difficult to repair in the field and may need to be shipped back to our facility for repair. Failures of our
offerings to perform to specifications, including certain performance requirements with respect to service-level
commitments in our customer agreements or issues caused by data center disruptions or failures, or other product
defects, have caused us to incur, and could cause us to incur in the future, significant warranty, support, and repair or
replacement costs, including credits or damages pursuant to our service-level commitments, and divert the attention
of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue or to design
workarounds. Further, issues with, or subpar performance of, AI models that we develop or help develop for
customers, or that we host in our inference cloud, may require additional and unexpected personnel cost to remedy.
In addition, delays in shipping or releasing products or training or hosting AI models or the discovery of an error or
defect in new products or software after commencement of commercial shipment or release could harm our
relationships with customers, as well as the perception of our brand, and may result in failure to achieve market
acceptance of our offerings and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
New developments and enhancements of our offerings require significant investment. Our failure to develop new
or enhanced offerings and introduce them in a timely and effective manner would undermine our
competitiveness.
We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources in the development of our AI compute
solutions, both at a hardware and software level. For example, we periodically publish software releases that may
contain significant new features or improvements, which require personnel and IT resources to develop and deploy.
Similarly, we periodically develop and release new versions of our hardware, including new generations of
processors at smaller process nodes and systems with state-of-the-art packaging technologies, which also requires
38
Table of Contents
significant financial and engineering resources, including design, fabrication, assembly, and testing costs. We
introduced our inference solution in 2024, which has new software and novel techniques in computation that
required significant investment.
Our failure to anticipate or timely adapt to changes in AI model architecture and other developments in AI
technologies could result in our current and next generation products not meeting the most prevalent customer
needs, leading to the loss of customers and decreased demand for our offerings. For instance, we have developed
software kernels and made hardware design decisions that optimize for AI solutions built on autoregressive
transformer architectures with higher compute demand. However, AI architecture is a rapidly evolving field, and the
design cycles for our products can be long. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our solutions will be optimized
for future AI workloads. Our solution currently integrates with the PyTorch machine learning framework to enable
familiar programmability for developers. New deep-learning frameworks emerge periodically, and while we intend
to evolve our solution to support those that become popular and widely adopted, we can provide no assurance that
we will be able to support all such frameworks with existing or future versions of our software. Likewise, our
inference solution was initially designed to support a limited set of leading third-party foundational models and our
inference cloud offering is exposed via an OpenAI-compatible API solution. While we intend to expand the number
of supported models and keep pace with industry leading model API, we must make decisions as to the order in
which popular foundational models and other product features will be integrated into our solution. If we do not
timely expand our inference solution to support models and product features that become popular within the AI
community, our inference product may lose current and potential customers.
At the same time, the AI compute market is subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, design
changes, and frequent new product introductions and feature enhancements. For example, continuous and rapid
advances in semiconductor technology compel providers of compute to release new and improved products at a
regular cadence. Failure to timely introduce new offerings that leverage the latest hardware and software
advancements in computing or in AI may result in diminished relevance, decreased competitiveness, and loss of
market share, which may harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We
have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in transitioning to next generation systems, including
due to adopting advanced process node technologies and advanced packaging solutions. Our ability to generate
usage of additional products by our customers may also require increasingly sophisticated, more costly and
differentiated sales efforts and result in longer sales cycles. In addition, adoption of new products or enhancements
may put additional strain on our customer support or compliance teams, which could require us to make additional
expenditures related to further hiring and training. Further, the investment required to stay abreast of innovations in
AI and AI compute, including research and development and intellectual property expenditures and capital
investments, is substantial. If we allocate our resources incorrectly, we may impair our product development cycle
and erode our competitive positioning. Resource constraints may also require us to discontinue existing products or
services to support new offerings. The effects of such business model changes may be difficult to predict and may
not be evident for a long period of time. If we choose to focus on the wrong products and services, it may harm our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
As a result of the rapid evolutions in AI technologies and the length of our product development cycle, we must
make decisions as to where to dedicate resources and develop product functionality based on our assessment of
which evolving AI technologies we think are likely to become widely adopted in the future. Our ability to
successfully compete and to continue to grow our business depends in significant part upon our ability to develop,
introduce, and sell new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to correctly anticipate and
respond to changing customer requirements. If we are incorrect in our assessments, we will have expended financial
and engineering resources that may not generate revenue, and which may harm our competitive position, to the
extent we do not have adequate solutions for use cases that become prevalent. Lack of market acceptance for our
new products for any reason could jeopardize our ability to recoup substantial research and development
expenditures and may harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays and unanticipated expenses in the development
and introduction of new products. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards
or a delay in bringing a new product or service to market may significantly reduce our return on investment as well
39
Table of Contents
as our sales, all of which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Delays in
the development of new products and services or product and service enhancements could also benefit our
competitors and allow them to achieve greater market share. We cannot assure that our future product development
efforts will be successful or result in products that gain market acceptance.
If our customers do not purchase additional products from us or expand their purchases with us in the future,
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be harmed.
In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers continue to
purchase our offerings on similar or improved terms, and that we increase the products and services our customers
purchase. Our on-premises system purchases are generally handled on a purchase order basis, and customers are not
otherwise required to purchase specific or additional quantities of products from us. Likewise, our cloud solutions
can be purchased by developers on a pay-as-you-go model without any long-term commitments. Even when
customers agree to purchase an agreed quantity of hardware products from us, we generally do not recognize
revenue until shipment or delivery, depending on shipping terms, or until we have met the contractual acceptance
terms. As a result, we may not generate the amount of revenue on the timeline that we expect. Moreover, our
customers' purchasing power have, in some cases, given them the ability to make greater demands on us with regard
to pricing and contractual terms. We expect this trend to continue, which we expect to adversely affect our gross
margin in the near term and, should we fail to perform under these arrangements, we could also be liable for
significant monetary damages. If our efforts to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers
are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. If
our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our
business and results of operations may be harmed.
Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts, the
length and variability of the sales cycle for our products, and the difficulty in making short-term adjustments to our
operating expenses. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. The length of our sales cycle, from initial
evaluation to purchase of our product, can vary substantially from customer to customer. Our sales efforts involve
educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities, and benefits of our solution. Customers often
undertake a lengthy evaluation of our products, which may involve not only our solution but also those of our
competitors. Potential customers have and may continue to request paid proof of concept trials prior to purchase,
which can be time intensive for our sales and technical personnel, and use compute capacity that could otherwise
have been sold. In addition, sales to large organizations and government agencies, and in highly regulated verticals,
tend to take longer to conclude because such organizations typically go through a significant evaluation and lengthy
negotiation process due to their size, organizational structure, and internal approval requirements, including
extensive information security requirements. We may spend substantial time, effort, and money on sales efforts
without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. As a result, it is difficult to predict if or exactly when
we will make a sale to a potential customer, or if we can increase sales to our existing customers. New product
developments or releases may lead to changes in the size, quantity and complexity of our customer relationships,
making it more difficult for us to predict timing of our sales or the expected impact to our results of operations. If
our sales cycle lengthens or we invest substantial resources pursuing unsuccessful sales opportunities, our business,
financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed.
Each individual sale tends to be large as a proportion of our overall sales, which has impacted our ability to
accurately forecast revenue and manage cash flows. In addition, sales have, in some cases, occurred in later quarters
than anticipated, or have not occurred at all, and within each quarter, it is difficult to predict when a transaction will
close. Therefore, it is often difficult to determine whether we will meet our quarterly or annual expectations until
near the end of such periods. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed or require time to adjust. If expectations for
our business are not accurate, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis, and our margins and
cash flows may differ from expectations.
40
Table of Contents
The estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth included in this prospectus may prove to be
inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, our business may not
grow at similar rates, or at all, or we may not be able to service these markets in full.
Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts included in this prospectus, including third-party market
research and internal estimates, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates
which may not prove to be accurate. While we believe the information on which we base our market opportunity
estimates and forecasts is generally reliable, such information is inherently imprecise and particularly so for a new
market such as AI. Furthermore, even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth
forecasts included in this prospectus, our business may not grow at similar rates, or at all. For example, we are in the
early stages of commercializing our solutions at its current scale, and there can be no assurance that we will be able
to capture any significant part of the relevant market or have the manufacturing capacity, data center commitments
or other dependencies to service the market in full. Exclusivity provisions in our customer agreements also limit our
ability to service certain parties in these markets. Moreover, the market for high-speed training and inference,
including real-time and agent-based systems, may not exist or increase as expected. Our growth is subject to many
factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which has many risks and uncertainties,
including those described herein. If our market opportunity estimates or growth forecasts prove to be inaccurate, our
future growth opportunities may be lower than we currently expect.
Any failure to offer high-quality maintenance and support services for our customers and maintain customer
satisfaction may harm our relationships with our customers and, consequently, our business.
Our customers depend on our maintenance and support teams to resolve technical and operational issues with
respect to our on-premises and cloud products. Our ability to provide effective customer maintenance and support is
dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel with AI, software programming, IT, and
complex hardware maintenance experience. In particular, our hardware systems are very complex and difficult to
repair in the field, with many components that are challenging and expensive to upgrade. When we sell hardware
units for installation on premises at our customers' facilities, we may in certain circumstances provide spare units
that may be used during repair downtime. Where we also provide cluster management services for hardware that we
have sold, our customer agreements typically provide for service credits in the event we do not meet certain uptime
requirements. Our cloud-based customer agreements may also include service credits for uptime requirements.
Additionally, growth in our customer base puts additional pressure on our customer maintenance and support
teams. Our customer support and cloud operations services teams may need additional personnel to respond to
customer demand. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer
demand for services. If we are unable to provide efficient, high-quality customer maintenance and support services
or if we are unable to hire sufficient additional maintenance and support personnel in a timely or efficient manner,
we may incur significant warranty, support, and repair, replacement, or service credit costs, and our business and our
relationships with our customers may be harmed.
In addition, as we continue to grow our operations and expand outside of the United States, we need to be able
to provide efficient services that meet our customers' needs globally at scale, and our customer support and cloud
operations services teams may face additional challenges, including those associated with operating the platforms
and delivering support, training, and documentation in languages other than English and providing services across
expanded time-zones. If we are unable to provide efficient customer support services globally at scale, our ability to
grow our operations may be harmed, and we may need to hire additional services personnel, which could increase
our expenses, and negatively impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects.
If we are not able to maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand recognition is critical to our relationships
with existing customers and our ability to attract new customers. The promotion of our brand may require us to
make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these
41
Table of Contents
marketing initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our marketing activities may not be
successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased
revenue may not offset the expenses we incur, and our results of operations may be harmed. In addition, any factor
that diminishes our reputation or that of our management, including failing to meet the expectations of our
customers and public or investor perception, may make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new
customers. Similarly, because our customers often act as references for us with prospective new customers, any
existing customer that questions the quality of our work or that of our employees could impair our ability to secure
additional new customers. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition with
our customers, our business may not grow and we may lose these relationships, which may harm our business,
financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Our semiconductor and hardware system design and manufacturing processes involve numerous technical,
operational, and financial risks, including challenges associated with advanced process nodes, tape-outs, and
complex packaging technologies, that could delay our product roadmap, increase our costs, and adversely affect
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Developing high-performance processors and systems requires us to continuously transition to more advanced
process node technologies and invest in increasingly complex packaging, power delivery, cooling, and integration
solutions. For example, the WSE-2 was manufactured on TSMC's 7nm process technology and the WSE-3 on
TSMC's 5nm process technology, and we expect future products to require even more advanced nodes and
packaging approaches. These transitions are essential for maintaining competitiveness but involve substantial design
complexity, significant engineering resources, and difficult trade-off decisions, including the opportunity costs
associated with technologies we choose not to pursue. As process and packaging technologies advance, the risks,
costs, and development timelines associated with semiconductor design generally increase.
We rely heavily on our foundry partner, currently TSMC, for successful transitions to next generation products
and for the manufacture of all of our wafers. We cannot assure you that TSMC or any future foundry partner will be
able or willing to support our product transitions on the schedules we require, in sufficient volume to meet customer
demand, or at all. Transitioning to another foundry would require substantial additional development effort, increase
our time to market, and could introduce new technical and supply-chain risks. In addition, we have experienced, and
may continue to experience, delays in securing tape-out slots and in resolving technical issues associated with new
designs. Failures or delays at tape-out, which marks the finalization of a chip design prior to manufacturing, carry
particularly high impact because the process requires significant engineering time, financial resources, and close
cooperation with the foundry. Tape-out failures, whether due to design flaws, manufacturing defects, or process-
related issues, can require restarts of the design cycle, increase costs, reduce yields, and delay product launches.
Our advanced wafer-scale architecture also requires continual innovation in power delivery, cooling, input&#47;
output integration, and other aspects of advanced packaging. As we push the limits of power density, thermal
management, and interconnect complexity, we may encounter fundamental constraints that require new engineering
solutions. If we fail to develop such solutions on the required timeline, or at all, we may be unable to meet our
product-roadmap objectives or deliver next-generation products. Reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product
deliveries, higher development and production expenses, or an inability to introduce competitive next-generation
products could harm our customer relationships, reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects.
Issues relating to the responsible use of our technologies may result in reputational or financial harm and
liability.
As with many new emerging technologies, AI presents risks and challenges and increasing ethical and legal
concerns relating to its responsible use that could affect the adoption of AI, and thus our business. Concerns relating
to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies in our offerings may also result in reputational or financial
harm and liability and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such issues. For instance, we offer AI model services in
which we develop proprietary AI models with and on behalf of our customers, as well as open-source AI models that
we or our customers make generally available to the community. We may not have insight into, or control over, how
42
Table of Contents
our customers and other third parties use or deploy the AI models that we trained or assisted in training, or that were
trained using our computing solutions, or that we otherwise make available to customers. We do not control how
others, including customers, use AI models that we develop or make available. We also cannot fully control how
users interact with our inference solution, including whether they may breach our terms of use or that of third-party
model providers with which we integrate or host. If we enable or offer AI models that draw controversy due to their
perceived or actual impact on society, including, for example, AI models that have unintended consequences,
infringe intellectual property rights or rights of publicity, disseminate illegal, inaccurate, defamatory, or harmful
content, or are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, cybersecurity, employment or other
social, economic or political issues, or if we are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating
to the responsible development and use of AI models, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive
harm, financial harm, or legal liability. Complying with multiple laws, statutes, regulations, guidelines, self-
regulatory frameworks, and industry standards from different jurisdictions related to AI could increase our cost of
doing business, may change the way that we operate in certain jurisdictions, or may impede our ability to offer
certain products and services in certain jurisdictions if we are unable to comply with applicable legal requirements.
Compliance with existing and proposed government regulation of AI, including in jurisdictions such as the European
Union (the "EU"), may also increase the cost of related research and development and compliance, and create
additional reporting or transparency requirements. In addition, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and
regulations worldwide related to AI, such as those laws that may pause or inhibit continued development or adoption
of AI, may limit global adoption, reduce demand for our offerings, increase our costs to provide our offerings,
impede our strategy, and negatively impact our long-term expectations in this area. For example, given the adoption
of the EU's Artificial Intelligence Act (the "AI Act"), which went into force in August 2024, and AI-related laws in
the United States, including the Colorado Artificial Intelligence Act (the "Colorado AI Act"), we anticipate that
there will continue to be significant developing laws and regulations with respect to AI as the AI industry continues
to develop. Changes in AI-related regulation may disproportionately impact and disadvantage us and require us to
change our business practices, which may harm our results of operations. Our, our customers, or others' failure to
adequately address any of the foregoing concerns or regulations relating to the responsible use of AI may undermine
public confidence in AI and slow adoption of our offerings or harm our reputation or business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects.
Events outside of our control, adverse economic conditions, or economic uncertainty may harm our business,
financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Disruptive and&#47;or unpredictable global events beyond our control (such as geopolitical conflict or terrorism,
including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, global pandemics or health
crises, natural disasters, or labor unrest) may increase the severity of political and economic volatility around the
world, and could result in a protracted localized or widespread decrease in demand for our products. In particular,
the war in the Middle East, where our strategic partners G42 and MBZUAI are headquartered , may negatively
impact our business, including exposing local infrastructure and operations to heightened risk. This decrease in
demand, depending on its scope and duration, could significantly impact and harm our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects over the short and long-term.
Additionally, many of our suppliers, including our sole source of wafers, TSMC, are located in areas of high
geopolitical tension, such as Taiwan and South Korea, or in areas prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and
typhoons. Similarly, the potential for military conflict between China and Taiwan could have negative impacts on
the global economy, including by affecting the supply of semiconductors from Taiwan, contributing to higher
energy prices and creating uncertainty in the global capital markets. Any substantial disruption in TSMC's supply of
wafers to us, or in the other supply services that we utilize, as a result of a natural disaster, climate change, water
shortages, political unrest, military conflict, geopolitical turmoil, trade tensions, government orders, medical
epidemics, economic instability, equipment failure or other causes, could materially disrupt our operations, may
harm our customer relationships, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Further, in 2025,
a significant majority of our revenue was generated from customers headquartered in the United Arab Emirates.
Recent wars, political instability, and protests in the Middle East have caused significant disruptions to many
industries. Conflict, political instability, and social unrest in, policy changes (including by the U.S government as
well as the governments of other countries in which we operate) with respect to, or negative public sentiment
43
Table of Contents
toward, the Middle East may significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects.
Further, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including a general slowdown in the United States or global
economy or in a particular region or industry, inflation, recession, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, tighter
credit, higher interest rates, new or increased trade tariffs, or an increase in trade tensions with United States trading
partners, may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In particular, the
imposition of tariffs, trade controls, border taxes, or other barriers to trade may directly or indirectly impact our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. For example, the 2025 U.S. announcement of
tariffs on imported goods from many countries and the announcement of retaliatory tariffs from select countries has
contributed to volatility in the markets, and has and may continue to negatively impact our costs . A deterioration in
economic conditions may cause our customers to reduce, delay or forego technology spending, including spending
on our products. Significant inflation may increase our costs and expenses, which we may choose not, or not be able
to, pass on to our customers. In addition, uncertainty about, or a decline in, global or regional economic conditions
may have a significant impact on our suppliers, some of which are located outside the United States. If customers or
prospective customers elect not to purchase our offerings as a result of a weak economy or rising inflation and
increased costs or otherwise, or our suppliers are unable to continue supplying our products, our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
mitigate the impacts of the foregoing or any future changes in global trade dynamics on our business. Potential
effects include financial instability, inability to obtain credit to finance operations and insolvency.
Pricing for the current generation of our existing products often decreases over time, which may harm our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We launched the CS-3 in 2024 and no longer manufacture the CS-2. In the future, we expect to release new
generations of our AI compute system, which may require us to reduce prices of then-current systems in anticipation
of such releases. In addition, customers may delay purchasing an existing system, or cloud compute capacity
associated therewith, in anticipation of our release of a next generation or newer, more advanced system. Our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed by a decline in the pricing for the
current generation of our existing products. Additionally, as competition increases in our target markets, we may
need to reduce the prices of our existing products and services in anticipation of competitive pricing pressures, new
product introductions by us or our competitors, new generations of such existing products, or for other reasons. If we
are unable to offset any reductions in pricing for existing products by increasing our sales volumes, decreasing costs,
or introducing new products or services or new product generations of such existing products with higher margins,
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed. To maintain our results of
operations, we must develop and introduce new products and services, next-generation products, and product
enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our costs as well as our customers' costs. Failure to do so
may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Risks Related to Operations
Our business and operations have experienced significant growth, and if we do not effectively manage our
growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects will be harmed.
We have grown rapidly since we were founded in 2016. For example, our total headcount has grown to
7 08 people as of December 31, 2025, and we have employees located in the United States, Canada, India, and other
countries. Our customer base has also grown and we expect it to continue to grow. The rapid growth and expansion
of our business places a continuous and significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources.
To manage future growth effectively, we will need to expand and improve our operating, financial, IT and other
administrative systems, controls, and procedures, and continue to manage headcount expansion and capital in an
efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, processes,
controls, and procedures in a timely or efficient manner. Any failure to improve our systems and processes, or their
44
Table of Contents
failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise,
may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business or to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and
earnings, or to prevent certain losses or replace anticipated revenue that we do not receive as a result of delays
arising from these factors. Moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide
accurate, timely, and reliable reports on our results of operations and financial condition and could adversely impact
the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our systems and processes may not
prevent or detect all errors, omissions, or fraud. Accordingly, our results of operations in future reporting periods
may be below the expectations of investors.
We will also face increased compliance costs associated with growth and the expansion of business, particularly
as we expand into new countries, if the number of our government customers increases, and as we become a public
company. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter additional risks and difficulties frequently
experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including effectively managing increasing
expenses, and allocating valuable financial and other resources as we continue to grow our business. If we do not
manage these risks successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects will be
harmed.
We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside the United States, which may
harm our business.
In addition to our U.S. operations, we also have international operations. We have foreign subsidiaries in
Canada and India, and a smaller number of employees in several other countries, including the United Arab
Emirates. In addition, we are planning to expand our data center locations to multiple geographies. We also on
occasion provide services at our customers' facilities, including those not located in the United States, and engage in
sales and marketing efforts in many foreign jurisdictions. International activities are subject to the uncertainties
associated with international business operations, including global laws and regulations, economic sanctions, tax
laws and regulations, privacy laws, export and import regulations, duties, tariffs, and other trade restrictions and
barriers, changes in trade policies, anti-corruption laws, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of
and reduced protection for intellectual property, and our ability to acquire and retain local employees, any of which
may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects may also be harmed in the event of political conflicts, economic crises, wars, or
other changes in international relations affecting countries where our subsidiaries, manufacturers, suppliers, and
customers are located.
A deterioration in relations between the United States and any country in which we have significant operations
or sales, or the implementation of government regulations in such a country, may result in the adoption or expansion
of trade restrictions, including economic sanctions and export license requirements, that may harm our business.
We plan to expand our international operations, including to jurisdictions where we have limited operating
experience and may be subject to increased business and economic risks that may harm our financial condition
and results of operations.
We plan to continue the international expansion of our business operations. We may enter new international
markets where we have limited or no experience in marketing, selling, and deploying our offerings. If we fail to
deploy or manage our operations in these countries successfully, our business and operations may suffer. In addition,
we are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including&#58;
&#8226; political, social, and&#47;or economic instability, including as a result of the ongoing conflicts between Russia
and Ukraine and in the Middle East&#59;
&#8226; risks related to governmental regulations in foreign jurisdictions and unexpected changes in regulatory
requirements and enforcement&#59;
45
Table of Contents
&#8226; existing trade laws and regulations, including those related to exports and deemed exports of U.S.
technology&#59;
&#8226; changes in trade relationships, including the imposition of new trade restrictions and sanctions, trade
embargoes, trade protection measures, export or import requirements, entity lists, tariffs, quotas, and other
trade barriers and restrictions, including those related to the ongoing trade disputes between China and the
United States&#59;
&#8226; fluctuations in currency exchange rates&#59;
&#8226; higher levels of credit risk and payment fraud&#59;
&#8226; enhanced difficulties of integrating any foreign acquisitions&#59;
&#8226; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws&#59;
&#8226; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties in enforcing
intellectual property and other rights outside the United States&#59;
&#8226; difficulties in staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal
compliance costs associated with multiple international locations and subsidiaries&#59;
&#8226; new and different sources of competition&#59;
&#8226; different regulations and practices with respect to employee&#47;employer relationships, existence of workers'
councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences,
making it harder to do business in certain international jurisdictions&#59;
&#8226; different regulations and practices with respect to real property, data center leases, power and utilities, and
environmental matters&#59;
&#8226; compliance with statutory equity requirements&#59; and
&#8226; management of tax consequences.
If we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our results of operations and
financial condition may be harmed.
Our business and ongoing expansion depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel, especially our
engineering and technical personnel.
Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We strive to
employ talented engineering and technical personnel, as well as effective sales, marketing, finance, and support
employees, all of which are in high demand. Maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse and inclusive
work environment that enables all our employees to thrive, is important to our ability to recruit and retain
employees. There is intense competition for highly qualified technologists in the AI industry, particularly in the San
Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located, as well as in Toronto, Canada and in Bangalore, India,
where we also have offices. We use various measures, including offering competitive salaries and benefits and an
equity incentive program, to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate and grow our business effectively.
However, these measures may not be sufficient, and our employees may decide not to continue working for us and
leave us with little or no notice. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are, with greater financial
resources and publicly traded stock, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages than we can,
particularly with regard to equity compensation. As a result, it may be difficult for us to continue to retain and
motivate these employees, and the value of their holdings could affect their decisions about whether or not they
46
Table of Contents
continue to work for us. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees may be adversely affected by declines
in the price of our Class A common stock. If we issue significant equity to attract employees or to retain our existing
employees, we would incur substantial additional stock-based compensation expense and the ownership of our
existing stockholders would be further diluted. In addition, some of our employees are employed with us on
temporary work visas, and any change in U.S. or other countries' immigration laws affecting their status or such
visas may make it difficult to retain such individuals or hire new personnel. The loss of even a few qualified
employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees could harm our ability
to develop and sell our products, as well as our results of operations, and impair our ability to expand and grow our
business.
As our company grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management
structures, adapt our corporate culture and work environments, streamline our organization, or adjust the size and
structure of our workforce to scale for the future and execute our long-term growth plan. If we fail to attract new
personnel, or to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations,
and prospects could be harmed.
The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could harm our business.
We currently depend on the continued services and contributions of our senior management team, particularly
the services of our co-founders. The members of our senior management team and co-founders are at-will
employees, which means that each person could resign or could be terminated for any reason at any time. Members
of our senior management team are critical to the management of our company and instrumental in the development
of our technology and our strategic direction, and should one or more of such persons stop working for us for any
reason, it is unlikely that we would be able to immediately find a suitable replacement. We also do not maintain any
key person life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any of them, other members of senior management, or
members of our senior technology personnel, could disrupt our operations, hamper our ability to implement our
business strategy, and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Any
future acquisitions and investments may disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of
operations.
We may seek to expand our business and the products and services we offer, or our employee base through the
acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies. We also may enter into relationships with other
businesses to expand our platform, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of
distribution, discount pricing, or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-
consuming, difficult, and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to approvals that are
beyond our control, including approvals related to foreign investments and acquisitions. In addition, we have not
previously acquired another business. Even if we are able to identify a suitable acquisition or investment target, we
may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may expend a
significant amount of time and incur significant out-of-pocket costs, as well as divert management attention, in
connection with an acquisition that is not ultimately completed. If an acquired business fails to meet our
expectations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
In the event we do consummate an acquisition, we face a number of risks as a result, including&#58;
&#8226; diversion of management time and focus&#59;
&#8226; coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions&#59;
&#8226; retention and motivation of key employees from the acquired company&#59;
&#8226; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company&#59;
47
Table of Contents
&#8226; integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources, and other
administrative systems and processes&#59;
&#8226; difficulty achieving the anticipated synergies of the transaction&#59;
&#8226; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property
infringement, violation, or misappropriation claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities
and other known and unknown liabilities&#59; and
&#8226; litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated
employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties.
Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions could cause us
to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our
business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence
of substantial amounts of debt, which could have terms that impose significant restrictions on our business,
contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses, or the impairment of goodwill, any of
which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other natural disasters and
catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as war and terrorism.
A significant natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, power outage,
telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, sabotage, other intentional acts of vandalism or
misconduct, geopolitical event, pandemic, or other public health crisis, or other catastrophic occurrence may harm
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Our principal corporate offices and a
significant number of our employees, as well as data centers in which we have deployed our products, are located in
the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. Geopolitical changes between China and Taiwan
could also disrupt the operations of our Taiwan-based third-party wafer foundry and other suppliers, negatively
impact delivery of products, and harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Furthermore, escalation of geopolitical tensions, including as a result of escalations in the ongoing conflicts between
Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, could impact our business, especially given our customer concentration
and personnel in the United Arab Emirates. These conflicts could also have a broader impact that expands into other
markets where we do business, which may harm our business, vendors, partners, customers, or the economy as a
whole. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems
could result in lengthy interruptions in our services or disruptions in our activities or the activities of our suppliers,
manufacturers, partners, customers, or the economy as a whole. All of the aforementioned risks may be further
increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. We do not carry business interruption insurance
sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that
may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. Any such natural disaster or man-
made problem may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Risks Related to IT Systems, Cybersecurity, and Intellectual Property
Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and IT systems,
including those in our data centers, and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business,
processes, and internal controls.
We rely on a number of internal business processes and IT systems to support key business functions, including
our supply chain and inventory management systems, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is
critical to our business. Our business processes and IT systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the growth
of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. As such,
our IT systems will continually evolve and adapt in order to meet our business needs. These changes may be costly
and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may
48
Table of Contents
also require changes in our IT systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of
employees and third parties, as well as other resources. We continuously work on simplifying our IT systems and
applications through consolidation and standardization efforts. There can be no assurance that our business and
operations will not experience any disruption in connection with this transition. Our IT systems, and those of our
third-party IT providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by
circumstances beyond our control including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters,
viruses or malware, cyber-attacks, insider threat attacks, unauthorized system or data modifications, data breaches
and computer system or network failures, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or
damage to our business. In addition, as our IT environment continues to evolve, we are embracing new ways of
communicating and sharing data internally and externally with customers and partners using methods such as
mobility and the cloud that can promote business efficiency. However, these practices can also result in a more
distributed IT environment, making it more difficult for us to maintain visibility and control over internal and
external users, and meet scalability and administrative requirements. If our security controls cannot keep pace with
the speed of these changes or if we are not able to meet regulatory and compliance requirements, or if we are unable
to address any of the concerns described above, our business financial condition, results of operations, and prospects
may be harmed.
Any failure of our IT systems or those of one or more of our IT service providers, business partners, vendors,
suppliers, or other third-party service providers, including data center providers, or any other failure by such
third parties to provide services to us may negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our
business.
Our business depends on various IT systems and outsourced IT services. We rely on third-party IT service
providers, business partners, vendors, suppliers, and cloud-based service providers to provide critical IT system,
corporate infrastructure, and other services and are, by necessity, dependent on them to adequately address
cybersecurity threats to, and other vulnerabilities, defects, or deficiencies of or in their own systems. This includes
infrastructure such as electronic communications, finance, marketing, and recruiting platforms and services such as
IT network development and network monitoring, and third-party data center hosting of our systems for our internal
and customer use. We do not own or control the operation of the third-party facilities or equipment used to provide
such services. Our third-party vendors and service providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on
commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable
terms, including with respect to service levels and cost, or at all, we may be required to transition to a new provider,
and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. In addition, such
service providers could decide to close their facilities or change or suspend their service offerings without adequate
notice to us. Moreover, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by such vendors or cloud-based service
providers, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict, may harm on our business. Since we cannot easily
switch vendors and cloud-based service providers, any disruption with respect to our current providers would impact
our operations and our business may be harmed. Furthermore, our disaster recovery systems and those of such third
parties may not function as intended or may fail to adequately protect our business information in the event of a
significant business interruption. Any termination, failure, or other disruption of any of such systems or services of
our third-party IT providers, business partners, vendors, suppliers, and cloud-based service providers could lead to
operating inefficiencies or disruptions, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects.
Product, IT system security, network, and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, incidents, or other
unauthorized access to, or disclosure or other processing of, our proprietary, confidential, or sensitive
information, including personal information, may disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue, increase
our expenses, and harm our business and reputation.
In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party providers collect, store, and otherwise process
confidential and sensitive information, including personal information about individuals such as our employees and
customers as well as proprietary business information and intellectual property. We also process training and
inference data provided to us by our customers and users, which may include personal information. This data,
including the personal information, is processed on our IT systems as well as those provided by certain third-party
49
Table of Contents
providers upon whom we rely for critical services such as cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication
technology, employee email and other functions.
We and our providers face various evolving cybersecurity risks that threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of our IT systems and data, including sensitive, proprietary, and personal information, that we process or
that is processed on our behalf. These risks include physical or electronic break-ins, security or cybersecurity
breaches, incidents and disruptions, computer malware, social-engineering attacks&#47;phishing, ransomware, denial-of-
service attacks, employee theft, misuse, or other malfeasance by insiders, human or technological error (such as
software bugs, server malfunctions, hardware, or software failures), loss of data or other IT assets, and other cyber-
attacks by threat actors.
Individuals, groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations, including nation-states and nation-state-
supported actors, terrorists, criminals, competitors, and other threat actors, have engaged and are expected to
continue to engage in cyber-attacks. The techniques employed in such attacks (such as the use of emerging AI
technologies), which we may not recognize until launched against a target or which may be difficult to discover for
an extended period, change frequently and are becoming increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to
successfully detect, defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience
cybersecurity breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period. Even if identified, we may be unable to
adequately investigate or remediate incidents or breaches due to attackers increasingly using tools and techniques
that are designed to circumvent controls, to avoid detection, and to remove or obfuscate forensic evidence. Such
cyber-attacks and other cybersecurity breaches, incidents, or disruptions may continue to evolve in frequency,
sophistication, and volume, and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. Any of the foregoing breaches,
incidents, or disruptions may compromise our networks, IT systems, or applications, or the data collected or
processed on such systems, causing interruptions, delays, loss, or other operational malfunctions, which in turn
could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Certain aspects of effective cybersecurity are dependent upon our employees, contractors, or other third-party
service providers safeguarding our sensitive information and adhering to our security policies and access control
mechanisms, and we may face cybersecurity threats due to error or intentional misconduct by such employees,
contractors, or other third-party service providers. Remote and hybrid working arrangements at our company (and at
many third-party providers) also increase cybersecurity risks due to the challenges associated with managing remote
computing assets and security vulnerabilities that are present in many non-corporate and home networks.
Additionally, due to geopolitical conflicts and during times of war or other major conflicts, we and the third parties
we rely upon may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of cyber-attacks that could materially disrupt our ability to
provide services and products.
Like many other companies, we and our third party providers have in the past, and may experience in the future,
actual or attempted security incidents, cyber-attacks, or other unauthorized access to, or disclosure or other
processing of, our proprietary, confidential or sensitive information, including arising from a failure to properly
handle IT systems and the data that is processed through them, including personal information, or to adhere to our
security policies and access control mechanisms and, although no such events have had a material adverse effect on
our business to date, there can be no assurance that we will not have a materially adverse incident in the future. To
defend against security incidents, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and
reliability features. We must also continue to develop our security measures, including training programs and
security awareness initiatives, as well as vendor management processes, designed to ensure that we and our suppliers
have appropriate security measures in place, and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our
customers, applicable industry standards, and government regulations. While we invest in training programs and
security awareness initiatives and take steps to detect and remediate vulnerabilities, we may not always be able to
prevent threats or detect and mitigate all vulnerabilities in our security controls, systems, or software, including
third-party software we have installed, as such threats and techniques change frequently and may not be detected
until after a security incident has occurred.
Further, we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our partners' supply
chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable vulnerabilities, defects, or bugs that could
50
Table of Contents
result in a breach of or disruption to our IT systems, including our products and services, or the third-party IT
systems that support our services. We may also incorporate third-party data into our AI algorithms or use open-
source datasets to train our algorithms. These datasets may be flawed, insufficient, or contain certain biased
information, contain information (including intellectual property and confidential, proprietary, or personal
information) for which the third party did not have appropriate rights, and may otherwise be vulnerable to security
incidents, or negatively affect safety, security, and other functioning of our AI compute solutions. We may have
limited insight into the data privacy or security practices of third-party suppliers, including with respect to our AI
models. Our ability to monitor these third parties' information security practices is limited, and they may not have
adequate information security or legal compliance measures in place or sufficient rights in the underlying data to
make them available. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security incident, our response may be
limited or more difficult because we may not have direct access to their systems, logs and other information related
to the security incident. Finally, we may experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed
to address identified vulnerabilities on our IT systems or those of our third-party providers. These vulnerabilities
could, if exploited, result in a security incident.
Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or unapproved access to our dissemination of proprietary,
confidential, or sensitive information, including personal information, about or by us or third parties, could expose
us and the parties affected to a risk of loss, or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation (including
class actions) and subsequent liability, regulatory inquiries or actions including potential penalties and fines,
additional reporting requirements or other oversight, restrictions on processing data, indemnification obligations,
being required to provide credit monitoring or identity-theft prevention services, diversion of funds, diversion of
management attention, financial loss, loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and operations, supply chain,
and ability to produce, sell and distribute our offerings, damage to our brand and reputation or erosion confidence in
the effectiveness of our security measures, or significant incident response, system restoration or remediation, and
future compliance costs or other harms, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects. Applicable data privacy and security obligations may also require us to notify relevant stakeholders,
including affected individuals, customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents, and investigations into and
mandatory disclosures with respect to such incidents could be costly and lead to negative publicity.
While our insurance policies include liability coverage for certain of these matters, subject to retention amounts
that could be substantial, if we experience a significant security breach, incident or disruption, we could be subject
to liability or other damages that exceed our insurance coverage and we cannot be certain that such insurance
policies will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not
deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed
available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or
the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Failure to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our brand, business,
and results of operations.
We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success. We strive to protect our
intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, unfair
competition and other related laws in the United States and internationally as well as confidentiality procedures and
contractual provisions to protect and establish our rights in our intellectual property, including our proprietary
technologies and know-how. We spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights,
including monitoring the unauthorized use of our products, but even with significant expenditures, we may not be
able to protect the intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. In particular, we are unable to predict
or assure that&#58;
&#8226; our intellectual property rights will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, or, in the case of
third-party intellectual property rights licensed to us, be licensed to others&#59;
&#8226; our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us&#59;
51
Table of Contents
&#8226; rights previously granted by third parties to intellectual property licensed or assigned to us, including
portfolio cross-licenses, will not hamper our ability to assert our intellectual property rights or hinder the
settlement of currently pending or future disputes&#59;
&#8226; any of our pending or future patent, copyright, or trademark applications will be issued or have the
coverage originally sought&#59;
&#8226; we will be able to enforce our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions where competition is
intense or where legal protection may be weak&#59; or
&#8226; we have sufficient intellectual property rights to protect or continue to offer our offerings or operate our
business.
We pursue the registration of our patents, trademarks, service marks, and domain names in the United States
and in certain foreign jurisdictions. We cannot guarantee that any current or future pending patent applications will
be issued to have the coverage originally sought, and even if the pending patent applications are granted, the rights
granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. Additionally, our patents could
be opposed, contested, narrowed, circumvented, challenged, abandoned, or designed around by our competitors or
be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The patent prosecution process is
expensive, time-consuming, and complex, and we have not in the past, and may not in the future be able to file,
prosecute, maintain, enforce, or license all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a
timely manner. Since we may not have sufficient resources or capital to pursue patent registration for our patentable
technology, our competitors could gain a competitive advantage if we fail to adequately protect such technologies as
trade secrets such that a competitor could develop similar technologies and pursue and obtain patent registration for
those technologies that would exclude us from continuing to use the patented technology, even if the technology was
initially proprietary to us. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and
development output in time to obtain patent protection. Failure to timely seek patent protection on products or
technologies generally precludes us from seeking future patent protection on these products or technologies. Even if
we do timely seek patent protection, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before
a patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance, and as a result we can give no assurance that any
patents that we have issued or may have issued in the future will protect all significant aspects or components of our
current and future products or services, will provide us with any competitive advantage, or will not be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented in the future. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain patent applications
and issued patents due to the subject matter claimed in such patent applications and issued patents being in
disclosures in the public domain. In addition, when patents expire, we lose the protection and competitive
advantages they originally provided to us.
Additionally, we believe that our success also depends on the technical expertise we have developed in
designing, testing, and manufacturing products, and we rely on confidential and proprietary information to develop
and maintain our competitive position. As a result, we also typically enter into confidentiality and invention
assignment agreements with our employees, contractors, and business partners in order to limit access to, and
disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, we cannot guarantee we have entered into such
agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our trade secrets, confidential or proprietary
information, or technology, including our AI offerings. Even if entered into, these contractual arrangements and the
other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation, infringement,
violation, dilution, or disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information or technology, including our AI
solutions, trade secrets, or intellectual property rights, or deter independent development of similar or competing
technologies by others.
Obtaining and maintaining effective intellectual property rights, including the costs of defending our rights is
expensive. We have obtained a number of provisional and issued patents, and are seeking additional patent
protection, and to register our trademarks and domain names in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions.
These processes are expensive and may not be successful in all jurisdictions or for every such application, and we
may not pursue such protections in all jurisdictions that may be relevant. Further, effective intellectual property
52
Table of Contents
protections may not be available in every country in which we offer our products or services, and even where
present, the laws of such countries may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent
as their equivalents in the United States. Additionally, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, intellectual
property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Any of the
foregoing could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation, dilution or other violation of our
intellectual property or marketing of competing products or services, and any failure to obtain or maintain adequate
protection of our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and may harm
our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our proprietary rights, or
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any actual or threatened litigation of this
nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical
resources, any of which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. In addition,
we believe that the protection of our trademark rights is an important factor in product recognition, protecting our
brand and maintaining goodwill and if we do not adequately protect our rights in our trademarks from infringement,
any goodwill that we have developed in those trademarks could be lost or impaired, which may harm our brand and
our business. There may be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other
trademarks that are similar to our trademarks, and as a result, we may incur significant costs in enforcing our
trademarks against those who attempt to imitate the "Cerebras" brand and other valuable trademarks and service
marks. If we fail to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property rights, our brand, business, and results of
operations may be harmed.
Further, we may acquire companies with intellectual property that is subject to certain licensing obligations or
restrictions. These licensing obligations may extend to our own intellectual property following any such potential
acquisition and may limit our ability to assert, protect, enforce, or otherwise use our intellectual property rights.
From time to time, we may pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, including, in some cases,
against our customers and suppliers, where we believe they have infringed, misappropriated, or otherwise violated
any of our intellectual property rights. Conversely, third parties have in the past pursued and may in the future
pursue intellectual property litigation against us. Claims of any of the foregoing could also harm our relationships
with our manufacturers and customers and might deter future manufacturers and customers from doing business
with us. Furthermore, an adverse decision in any such legal action may result in material expense and limit our
ability to assert or enforce our intellectual property rights and limit the value of our products and services, which
may otherwise harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Our ability to design and introduce new offerings in a timely manner includes the use of certain third-party
intellectual property.
In the design and development of new and enhanced offerings, including AI computing solutions, we rely on
certain third-party intellectual property, such as development and testing tools for certain hardware and software.
Further, we have, on occasion, leveraged third parties for software development and have partnered with vendors on
aspects of hardware and process development. Furthermore, certain of our product features may rely on intellectual
property acquired from third parties that incorporate into our hardware or software. The design requirements
necessary to meet customer demand for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may
exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development or testing tools available to us. If the
third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable, is not available with required functionality or
performance in the time frame or price point needed for our new products or fails to produce designs that meet
customer demands, or laws are adopted that affect our use of third party intellectual property in certain regions or
products, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
53
Table of Contents
We may face claims of intellectual property infringement, misappropriation, dilution, or other violations, which
could be time-consuming or costly to defend or settle, result in the loss of significant rights or harm our
relationships with our customers or reputation in the industry.
Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert against us their patent and other intellectual property
rights to technologies or information that are used in or are important to our business, which may be time consuming
and costly to defend or settle. We have in the past received, and may receive in the future, particularly as a public
company with an increased profile and visibility, communications from others alleging our infringement,
misappropriation, dilution, or other violation of intellectual property rights. In addition, in the event that we recruit
employees or contractors from other companies, including certain potential competitors, and these employees or
contractors are involved in the development of products that are similar to the products they assisted in developing
for their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees or contractors have used or
disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information in an unauthorized manner. We may also in the future be
subject to claims by our third-party suppliers, employees, or contractors asserting an ownership right in our issued
patents, pending patent applications or other intellectual property, including our AI solutions, as a result of the work
they performed on our behalf, or claims for indemnification by our customers who are subject to infringement or
other claims by third parties.
While we do not license for profit, sell access to, or otherwise derive revenue directly from the use of AI
models, we have trained AI models on publicly available datasets, similar to many other developers of AI models,
and released certain of such models to the community under certain open-source licenses. We also provide AI model
services to our customers, where we leverage our expertise to help customers train their models with architectures,
parameter sizes, and data sets and types of their choosing, which may include publicly available or proprietary data
sets or a combination of both. The act of such training necessarily involves transmission and use of certain data on
our systems. Like other developers of AI models who are subject to litigation and other disputes arising from the
training, fine-tuning, use, or development of AI models, we are currently and may in the future be subject to lawsuits
alleging that we reproduced, copied, displayed, distributed, or made derivative works of, or otherwise misused
copyrighted materials to train our or our customers' AI models without the authorization of the relevant copyright
owners, or otherwise infringed third-party proprietary rights in training data, including rights of publicity. However,
this remains an unsettled area of U.S. law and U.S. courts are currently weighing a number of lawsuits involving
claims that the reproduction of data for training AI models, or the use of AI models trained on copyrighted data,
infringes the rights of copyright holders. In addition, we have and may continue to fine-tune certain third-party AI
models. While we believe we are in compliance with the applicable license terms of such models, the interpretation
of such licenses may vary, and we may be subject to claims that we have violated the terms of such licenses.
Claims that our offerings or processes infringe, misappropriate, dilute, or otherwise violate third-party
intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be time-consuming or costly to defend or
settle and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Infringement claims also
could harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We
do not know whether we would prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent
uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we
could be required to&#58;
&#8226; cease the manufacture, use, or sale of the infringing offerings or processes&#59;
&#8226; pay substantial damages for infringement, misappropriation, dilution, or other violation, including
enhanced damages for any willful infringement&#59;
&#8226; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing offerings or processes, which may not be successful&#59;
&#8226; license certain components or data from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be
available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all&#59;
54
Table of Contents
&#8226; cross-license our offerings to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our
ability to compete with that competitor&#59; or
&#8226; pay substantial damages to our customers or end-users to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing
product or process sold to them with non-infringing offerings or processes, if available.
Additionally, even if successful in any such proceedings, our rights in our offerings and other intellectual
property may be invalidated, encumbered, narrowed, or otherwise diminished. Moreover, there could be public
announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities
analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of
our Class A common stock. Any of the foregoing results may harm our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects. Litigation against our customers as a result of third-party claims of intellectual property
infringement could trigger indemnification obligations under some of our agreements, which could result in
substantial expense to us, and which may materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations,
and prospects.
Certain of our intellectual property has been and may be developed under research agreements with U.S.
government entities, and may be subject to federal regulations that limit our exclusive rights in certain
circumstances.
Certain of our intellectual property that generally pertain to applications outside of our offerings in the AI
computing market has been and may be developed under contracts with U.S. government entities. As a result, the
U.S. government may have certain rights to intellectual property that we use in our current or future products
pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, as amended (the "Bayh-Dole Act") or as otherwise required by our
contractual arrangements. Under the Bayh-Dole Act, U.S. government rights in certain "subject inventions"
developed under such contracts include a nonexclusive, non-transferable, and irrevocable worldwide license to use
inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us, or an assignee
or exclusive licensee to such inventions, to grant licenses to these inventions to the U.S. government or a third party
if the U.S. government determines that&#58; (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize the invention&#59;
(ii) government action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs&#59; (iii) government action is necessary to
meet requirements for public use under federal regulations&#59; or (iv) the right to use or sell such inventions is
exclusively licensed to an entity within the United States and substantially manufactured outside the United States
without the U.S. government's prior approval. We may lose exclusivity to our intellectual property rights if we fail
to comply with reporting obligations regarding subject inventions, fail to file for patent protection within specified
time limits, or fail to comply with other relevant Bayh-Dole Act restrictions. If any of our intellectual property
becomes subject to the rights or remedies available to the U.S. government or third parties pursuant to the Bayh-
Dole Act or related contractual arrangements, the value of our intellectual property may be impaired and our
business may be harmed.
Our use of third-party open-source software may pose risks to our proprietary software and services in a manner
that may harm our business.
Certain of our software, as well as that of our vendors or partners, may use or be derived from "open-source"
software that is generally made available to the public by its authors or other third parties. Some open-source
software licenses require end-users, who use, distribute or make available across a network software and services
that include open-source software, to make publicly available or to license at no cost all or part of such software
(which in some circumstances may include valuable proprietary code, such derivative works of the open-source
software) under the terms of the particular open-source license. These obligations may require us to make source
code for the derivative works available to the public or license such derivative works under a particular type of
license rather than the more limited access rights we customarily grant our customers and their users. This type of
licensing may subject us to disclosure of valuable, proprietary software code.
While our policies and processes are intended to enable us to monitor and comply with the licenses of third-
party open-source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we may inadvertently use third-party
55
Table of Contents
open-source software in a manner that exposes us not only to the risk of a forced disclosure of our own proprietary
software, but also to claims of non-compliance with the terms of third-party licenses, including claims of
infringement or for breach of contract. We cannot be sure that all open-source software is identified, reviewed, or
submitted for approval prior to use in our operations or platform. Also, there exists today an increasing number of
types of open-source software licenses, and those licenses may not yet have faced legal challenges in courts that
could result in guidance to users in their efforts to avoid legal issues. If we were to receive a claim of non-
compliance with the terms of any of these licenses, not only would the potential exposure of our own source code be
very harmful to us, but we may be required to invest substantial time and resources to re-engineer some of our
software or license alternative software on terms unfavorable to us. Any of the foregoing may disrupt and harm our
intellectual property, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Additionally, the use of certain open-source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party
commercial software, as open-source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality
or origins of software or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the licensed
code, including with respect to security and architectural vulnerabilities. There is typically no support available for
open-source software and such software is ordinarily provided on an "as-is" basis, and we cannot be sure that the
authors of such open-source software will implement or push updates to address security risks or will not abandon
further development and maintenance. Many of the risks associated with the use of open-source software, such as
the lack of warranties or assurances of title or performance, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly
addressed, negatively affect our business. Use of open-source software may also present additional security risks
because the public availability of such software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine
how to compromise our services. Further, our use of any AI solutions that use or incorporate any open-source
software may heighten any of the foregoing risks. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and,
if not addressed, may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters
Our business and our offerings are subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these
regulations may cause us to incur significant expense. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could
be subject to administrative, civil, and&#47;or criminal penalties.
Our business and our offerings are subject to various domestic and international laws and other legal
requirements, including packaging, product content, and labor regulations. Further, we are subject to various
governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in our
markets, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"), which are administered by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS"), as well as economic and trade sanctions,
including those administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC").
U.S. export control laws and regulations restrict or prohibit the export, re-export, and in-country transfer of certain
commodities, software, and technology (including certain AI technologies) to restricted countries, governments,
persons, and entities. In addition, we are subject to similar export control laws and regulations in other jurisdictions,
including, without limitation, the EU and Canada, and could become subject to further export controls laws and
regulations in other jurisdictions.
Changes to sanctions or export or import restrictions in the jurisdictions in which we operate or have customers
could further impact our ability to do business in certain parts of the world and to do business with certain persons or
entities, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and future prospects. BIS
has changed and may again change the export control rules at any time and may impose additional export control
restrictions and elevated licensing requirements on certain components of our products. For example, we are
monitoring a proposed rule that BIS issued in January 2024, which would require, among other things, U.S.
providers of Infrastructure-as-a-Service ("IaaS") products, and resellers of such products, to verify the identity of
their foreign customers, and providers of certain IaaS products to submit a report to the U.S. Secretary of Commerce
when a foreign person transacts with that provider or one of its resellers to train a large AI model with potential
capabilities that could be used in malicious cyber-enabled activity. If the regulations go into effect as proposed and
are deemed to apply to our business, we may be required to expend substantial resources to comply with the
56
Table of Contents
verification, reporting, recordkeeping, and resale enforcement requirements and may be restricted in our customer
base. We also are monitoring certain legislative developments, including, without limitation, the Remote Access
Security Act, which may impact third party access to our compute infrastructure.
Changes in our offerings, and changes in, or promulgation of, new export or import regulations, may delay the
introduction of our offerings into international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from
deploying our offerings globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our offerings to certain countries,
governments, or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions, or related
legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or economic sanctions, or change in the
countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations or economic sanctions could result in
decreased or loss of revenue, including an inability to sell existing offerings to existing or potential customers. We
also may not be able to develop replacement offerings not subject to licensing and other requirements. We cannot
provide assurance that heightened attention on relations with the Middle East, including companies based therein,
and such region's AI ambitions, will not cause the U.S. government to adopt new regulations, or deny us necessary
regulatory approvals, that limit our ability to sell our offerings there or result in brand or reputational harm,
competitive harm, or financial harm.
In addition, any deterioration in the respective relations between the United States, China, Taiwan, the Middle
East, and other jurisdictions could lead to additional sanctions or export controls on such countries, regions, and
specific individuals or entities, which could impact our ability to sell to or source components from such locales or
otherwise negatively impact our business. In addition, trade regulations or other governmental actions targeted at
one country or entity may impact other countries or entities. Any decreased sales of our offerings, or limitation on
our ability to export or sell our offerings, would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects. Further changes in trade or national security protection policy, tariffs, additional taxes,
restrictions on exports, or other trade barriers could impede the supply chain in this industry. Additional restrictions
could also provoke responses from foreign governments that negatively impact our supply chain, limit our ability to
obtain additional components or raw materials and produce products, increase our selling and&#47;or manufacturing
costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our offerings, reduce our ability to sell offerings, or reduce
our ability to have investments or mergers and acquisitions approved by governmental agencies, any of which may
harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We are also subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which have been
enforced aggressively in recent years. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to support
compliance with relevant economic sanctions, export controls, and anti-corruption laws, there can be no assurance
that our employees, partners, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and
procedures. Any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may have adverse consequences for us,
including reputational harm, government investigations, possible loss of export or import privileges, and substantial
civil and criminal penalties. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy
violations of, these regulations.
Our offerings or manufacturing standards may also be impacted by new or revised environmental rules and
regulations or other social initiatives, such as the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances, the EU
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, and U.S. conflict mineral regulations. Compliance with such
regulations may increase the cost of doing business and any failure in compliance may subject us to adverse
consequences such as penalties, investigations, and mandatory re-designs of our offerings.
Our offerings are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the
required export license or through a license exception. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in
obtaining all required licenses in the future. If we are unable to obtain licenses to export our offerings, our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
Our offerings are subject to U.S. export controls, and generally may only be exported to customers located in
certain countries with prior licensing from the BIS. In particular, in October 2023, BIS announced updated licensing
requirements for exports of certain semiconductors and other items, including certain components of our products, to
57
Table of Contents
countries in the EAR's Country Groups D&#58;1, D&#58;4 (which includes the United Arab Emirates, where our strategic
partners, G42 and MBZUAI, are headquartered), and D&#58;5. The licensing requirements also apply to the export of
these items to a party headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent headquartered in, Country Group D&#58;5. In January
2025, BIS published its Framework for Artificial Intelligence Diffusion, which implemented a worldwide ecosystem
for the diffusion and use of AI and advanced computing integrated circuits. Although BIS has announced that it will
not enforce these rules, and plans to issue new rules on the export of these products in the future, the details are not
currently available.
The licensing process is time-consuming and historically has been difficult with respect to certain regions and
subject to shifting governmental policies. There is no assurance that BIS will grant licenses to export our offerings to
our customers or prospective customers. Because the export license process is uncertain, prospective customers of
our offerings may seek alternative suppliers who can more readily obtain a license or sell competitive products or
services that do not require a license to export.
Even if we are able to obtain an export license from BIS with respect to our products, the license may impose
burdensome conditions that we or our customer cannot accept and&#47;or that require significant investment with respect
to security and compliance. For example, we have obtained export licenses for our CS-2, CS-3, and future CS-4
systems for export to G42 and MBZUAI in the United Arab Emirates, but the applicable licenses require that we and
our customer undertake certain rigorous security and compliance obligations to prevent diversion and abuse of our
technology. Managing these obligations will require additional investment in processes, technology and personnel,
and if we or our customers fail to comply with these conditions, the export license may be revoked, including after
we have manufactured the applicable products, and we may be subject to civil monetary fines, criminal sanctions,
and other administrative penalties (such as loss of export privileges), which may harm our reputation, business,
financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. To the extent we increase our business outside the United
States, our risks under these laws and regulations, as well as comparable laws in other countries where we operate or
plan to operate, would increase.
While we have implemented certain procedures to facilitate compliance with applicable laws and regulations,
we cannot ensure that these procedures are fully effective or that we, or third parties who we do not control, have
complied with all laws or regulations in this regard. Failure by our employees, representatives, contractors, partners,
agents, intermediaries, or other third parties (including our customers) to comply with applicable laws and
regulations also could have negative consequences to us, including reputational harm, government investigations,
loss of export privileges and penalties. To the extent we increase our business outside the United States, our risks
under these laws and regulations would increase.
These international trade laws, regulations, and policies may disadvantage us relative to competitors who sell
products or services that are not subject to U.S. export control restrictions or who may be able to acquire licenses for
their products that we are not able to obtain. Our competitive position and future results may be further harmed over
the long-term if there are further changes in BIS export controls, including further expansion of the geographic,
customer, or product scope of the controls applicable to our products, if customers purchase products from
competitors, if customers develop their own internal solutions to avoid the need to purchase our products, if we are
unable to provide contractual warranty or other extended service obligations, if BIS does not grant licenses in a
timely manner or denies licenses relating to significant customers, or if we incur significant transition costs. Even if
BIS grants requested licenses, the licenses may be temporary, limited in volume or quantity, or impose burdensome
conditions that we or our customers or end users cannot or choose not to fulfill. The licensing requirements may
benefit certain of our competitors who have more presence and influence with the government, and encourage
customers to pursue alternatives to our products, including semiconductor suppliers based in China, Europe, and
Israel. If we are unable to manage new licenses and other requirements or obtain export licenses in the future, our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be harmed.
Sales to government entities and highly regulated organizations are subject to a number of challenges and risks.
We have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, our offerings to governmental agencies or entities and
customers in highly regulated industries, such as healthcare and financial services. Selling to such entities can be
58
Table of Contents
highly competitive, expensive, and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without
any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. In addition, government demand and payment for our offerings
are affected by changes in administration, public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, and
government contracting requirements may change from time to time, any of which can limit our ability to sell into
the government sector. In certain foreign jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political or
other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market.
Further, government and other highly regulated entities can have more complex IT and data environments, and
often have longer implementation or deployment cycles than others. They have and may continue to demand
contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and may be less favorable than terms agreed with other
private sector customers, and may expect greater payment flexibility. Government contracts may contain provisions
that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial
contracts, including provisions relating to intellectual property "march-in" rights, preferential pricing, refund rights,
obligation modifications, U.S. manufacturing requirements, export control, and termination or non-renewal due to
funding availability.
Government contracting requirements may change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the
government sector until we have obtained any required government certifications. Further, to contract with certain
government agencies, some of our employees may be required to have security clearances. Obtaining and
maintaining such security clearances is a lengthy process. If our employees are unable to obtain or maintain such
clearances, or we cannot recruit employees with such clearances, it would harm our ability to sell to, or work with,
such government agencies, which may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Government
demand and payment for our offerings are affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations,
with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our solutions.
As a government contractor or subcontractor, we must comply with laws, regulations, and contractual
provisions relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, all of which may
impose additional costs on our business. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors'
administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue purchasing
our offerings. In addition, as a result of actual or perceived noncompliance with government contracting laws,
regulations, or contractual provisions, we may be subject to non-ordinary course audits and internal investigations
which may prove costly to our business financially, divert management attention or limit our ability to continue
selling our offerings to our government customers. Failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and
requirements could lead to claims for damages, downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations, civil or
criminal penalties, and termination of contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting for a
period of time with government agencies. Any such damages, penalties, disruption of, or limitation in our ability to
do business with a government would harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and
prospects.
Our global operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements and failure to comply with such
requirements, including unexpected changes to such requirements, may harm our results of operations.
We service our customers around the world. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal
regimes of the United States and foreign national, state, and provincial authorities on matters as diverse as anti-
corruption, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, anti-competition, intellectual property, data security, and
privacy. U.S. laws may be different in significant respects from the laws of countries where we operate or we or our
customers may enter, forcing businesses to choose between compliance with conflicting legal regimes. We also may
seek to expand operations in emerging market jurisdictions where legal systems are less developed or familiar to us.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the laws or administrative practices relating to taxation (including
with respect to income and withholding taxes), foreign exchange, export controls, economic sanctions, or otherwise
in the jurisdictions where we have operations will not change. Changes in tax laws in some jurisdictions may also
have a retroactive effect and we may be found to have paid less tax than required in such jurisdictions. Compliance
with diverse legal requirements is costly, time consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or
59
Table of Contents
more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against
us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in
connection with the performance of our obligations to our customers also could result in liability for significant
monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, and
allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of
development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect
our rights.
Our global operations and collection, storage, use and other processing of proprietary, confidential, and sensitive
information, including personal information, expose us to numerous data privacy and security laws, regulations,
contractual requirements, and other obligations relating to data privacy and security, and the actual or perceived
failure to comply with such obligations, including unexpected changes to such obligations, may harm our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
The processing of personal information, including the personal information of our employees and customers,
makes us, or may make us, subject to a complex patchwork of evolving data privacy and security laws that are not
always interpreted uniformly. Additionally, we may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our
collection, storage, transmission, use and other processing of proprietary, confidential, and sensitive information,
including personal information, and may be bound or asserted to be bound by, or voluntarily comply with, self-
regulatory or other industry standards relating to the processing of such information. These laws, rules, regulations,
industry standards, contractual requirements and other obligations are constantly evolving, and we expect that we
will continue to become subject to new proposed laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, contractual
requirements and other obligations in the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate. This evolution,
among other things, may create uncertainty in our business&#59; affect us or our collaborators', service providers' and
contractors' ability to operate in certain jurisdictions or to collect, store, transfer, use and share personal information&#59;
necessitate the acceptance of more onerous obligations in our contracts&#59; result in liability&#59; or impose additional costs
on us&#59; necessitate changes to our IT systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal
information on our behalf, or require us to change our business model. There is no guarantee that regulators or
consumers will agree with our approach to compliance and any failure, or perceived failure, to comply with
applicable data privacy or security laws or regulations may harm our business, financial condition, results of
operations, and prospects.
In the United States, numerous state and federal laws, regulations, standards, and other legal obligations,
including consumer protection laws and regulations, which govern the collection, dissemination, use, access to,
confidentiality, security, and other processing of personal information, including certain health-related information,
apply to our operations or the operations of our customers, third-party service providers, or partners. For example,
we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission
("FTC"), which, together with many state Attorneys General, has the authority to regulate and enforce against unfair
or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, including acts and practices with respect to privacy, data
protection and cybersecurity. According to the FTC, failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers' personal
information secure can constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act. The FTC expects a company's data security measures to be reasonable and
appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its
business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. Congress also has
considered, and continues to consider, many proposals for comprehensive national privacy, data protection, and
cybersecurity legislation, including with respect to AI, to which we may become subject if enacted.
Additionally, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, and regulations promulgated
thereunder ("HIPAA") imposes privacy, security, and breach notification obligations on covered entities, as well as
their business associates that process certain health-related information on their behalf. Depending on the facts and
circumstances, we could be subject to significant civil, criminal, and administrative fines and penalties and&#47;or
additional reporting and oversight obligations if found to be in violation of HIPAA.
60
Table of Contents
Certain U.S. states have also adopted comparable data privacy and security laws and regulations, which govern
the privacy, processing, and protection of personal information. Such laws and regulations will be subject to
interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance
issues for us and our future customers and strategic partners. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act, as
amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (collectively, the "CCPA"), provides for enhanced privacy rights for
California residents and requires covered businesses that process the personal information of California residents to,
among other things&#58; (i) provide certain disclosures to California residents regarding the business's collection, use,
and disclosure of their personal information&#59; (ii) receive and respond to requests from California residents to access,
delete, and correct their personal information, or to opt out of certain disclosures of their personal information&#59; and
(iii) enter into specific contractual provisions with service providers that process California resident personal
information on the business's behalf. The CCPA is enforced by the California Attorney General and the California
Privacy Protection Agency ("CPPA"), and provides for civil penalties for certain violations, as well as a private right
of action for certain data breaches that may increase the likelihood of and risks associated with data breach litigation.
In addition, numerous other states have enacted, or are in the process of enacting or considering, comprehensive
state-level privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws, rules and regulations that share similarities with the
CCPA, which creates the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different domestic privacy laws. In addition,
all 50 states have laws that require the provision of notification for breaches of personal information to affected
individuals, state officers or others. Noncompliance with HIPAA, FTC rules and regulations, the CCPA, or other
U.S. privacy laws may result in enforcement actions, litigation, or other disputes and expose us to additional
liability, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We may also be subject to evolving privacy laws on cookies, tracking technologies, marketing, advertising, and
other activities conducted by telephone, email, mobile devices, and the internet, and similar state consumer
protection and communication privacy laws, such as California's Invasion of Privacy Act. Regulation of cookies and
similar technologies may lead to broader restrictions on our marketing and personalization activities, as well as the
effectiveness of our marketing. Such regulations may have a negative effect on our business. We may also be subject
to fines and penalties for noncompliance with any such laws and regulations. The decline of cookies or other online
tracking technologies as a means to identify and target potential customers may increase the cost of operating our
business and lead to a decline in revenue. In addition, legal uncertainties about the legality of cookies and other
tracking technologies may increase regulatory scrutiny and increase potential civil liability under data protection or
consumer protection laws. Claims that we have violated such laws could be costly to litigate, whether or not they
have merit, and could expose us to substantial statutory damages or costly settlements.
We are also required or may be required to comply with foreign data privacy and security laws in jurisdictions
in which we have offices or conduct business. For example, in Europe, the EU General Data Protection Regulation
and applicable national supplementing laws (collectively, the "GDPR") impose strict requirements for processing
the personal data of individuals within the European Economic Area ("EEA") or for activities within the EEA.
Following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU, we may also be subject to the UK General Data Protection
Regulations and Data Protection Act 2018 (collectively, the "UK GDPR"). The GDPR and UK GDPR are wide-
ranging in scope and impose numerous additional requirements on companies that process personal data, including
imposing special requirements in respect of the processing of personal data, requiring that consent of individuals to
whom the personal data relates is obtained in certain circumstances, requiring additional disclosures to individuals
regarding information processing activities, requiring that safeguards are implemented to protect the security and
confidentiality of personal data, creating mandatory data breach notification requirements in certain circumstances
and requiring that certain measures (including contractual requirements) are put in place when engaging third-party
processors. The GDPR and UK GDPR also provide individuals with various rights in respect of their personal data,
including rights of access, erasure, portability, rectification, restriction, and objection. Failure to comply with the
GDPR and the UK GDPR can result in significant fines and other liability. European data protection authorities have
shown a willingness to impose significant fines and issue orders preventing the processing of personal information
on non-compliant businesses and have imposed fines for GDPR violations up to, in some cases, hundreds of millions
of Euros. While the UK GDPR currently imposes substantially the same obligations as the GDPR, the UK
government recently enacted the Data Use and Access Act 2025, which became law in June 2025 and will continue
to be phased in through 2026. This new legislation introduces reforms that diverge from the EU GDPR, and may
require us to implement additional compliance measures under the new framework. These changes create risk of
61
Table of Contents
divergent parallel regimes and related uncertainty, along