London Stock Exchange Group plc
Annual Report 2025
Strategic Report
Approval of the Strategic Report is provided 
in the Director’s report on page 104 
LSEG at a glance 1
Group highlights 2
Our investment case 3
Chair’s statement 4
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 5
Executive management team 6
Market trends and our response 8
Our purpose and strategy 10
Our business model 14
Key performance indicators 16
Divisional review: Data & Analytics  20
Divisional review: FTSE Russell 22
Divisional review: Risk Intelligence 23
Divisional review: Markets 24
Chief Financial Officer’s review 26
Financial review 28
Sustainability 37
Board engagement with stakeholders 47
Section 172(1) statement 50
Principal risks and uncertainties 52
Financial viability statement 56
Governance
Complying with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
 58
Corporate governance introduction 59
Board of Directors 60
Corporate governance report 64
Report of the Nomination Committee 72
Report of the Audit Committee 76
Report of the Risk Committee 80
Directors’ Remuneration Report 82
Directors’ Report 104
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 109
Financial Statements 
Independent Auditor’s Report 111
Consolidated income statement  118
Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income 
 119
Consolidated balance sheet 120
Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity 121
Consolidated cash flow statement 122
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 123
Company balance sheet 180
Company statement of changes  
in equity 181
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 182
Additional Information
Alternative performance measures 194
Glossary 197
Investor Relations 199
Disclaimers 200
Contents
Make more possible
LSEG at a glance
What we do
LSEG is a leading provider of financial markets infrastructure and 
data products, delivering capabilities in data, indices and analytics, 
capital formation, trade execution, clearing and risk management. 
Our solutions enable customers to access liquidity, manage risk 
and make informed decisions across global markets.
Our business Our purpose and values Our strategy
Our four business divisions – Data & 
Analytics, FTSE Russell, Risk Intelligence 
and Markets – provide customers with a 
comprehensive solution suite spanning the 
entire trade lifecycle and data value chain. 
Data & Analytics
Open platform delivering trusted data 
feeds, analytics and workflow solutions, 
empowering customers to turn insights 
into action across trading, investing and 
risk management.
FTSE Russell
Global benchmarks, indices and data 
solutions covering a range of asset classes, 
supporting portfolio construction, asset 
allocation, and risk and performance analysis.
Risk Intelligence
Trusted screening, identity verification 
and fraud prevention solutions that enable 
organisations to meet regulatory and 
compliance obligations and mitigate risk 
of financial crime.
Markets
Venues and platforms to raise and 
transfer capital through capital issuance 
and secondary trading, alongside a 
comprehensive suite of clearing and 
post-trade services, enabling customers 
to access liquidity, manage risk and 
optimise resources.
We drive financial stability by operating 
businesses that are of systemic importance, 
fundamental to the financial ecosystem and 
that serve our customers’ critical needs.
We empower economies by helping 
our customers to raise capital, support 
employment, innovate and access global 
financial networks, across multiple 
asset classes.
We enable customers to create sustainable 
growth by providing the tools and data that 
enable financial markets to manage risk and 
make informed investment decisions.
Underpinning our purpose, our values – 
Integrity, Partnership, Excellence and 
Change – guide how we work with 
customers, partners and each other.
We are a global, multi-asset class financial 
markets infrastructure (FMI) and data 
provider, serving our customers across 
the trade lifecycle. Our business is defined 
by a clear set of strategic differentiators:
 – We are trusted to deliver services 
meeting business-critical needs.
 – We build and maintain deep partnerships 
with our customers.
 – We support an open ecosystem.
 – We offer integrated solutions including 
AI functionality.
 – We operate an AI-enabled data machine 
and distribution.
For more detail on our strategy 
– refer to pages 11 to 13.
For more detail on our purpose  
– refer to page 10.
For more detail on our divisions 
– refer to pages 20 to 25.
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
1London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Group highlights
1 Continuing operations.
2 Recoveries relate to fees for third-party content, such 
as exchange data, that is distributed to customers. 
They represent low margin pass-through revenues and 
are offset in cost of sales. We exclude recoveries in our 
performance commentary when trying to convey the best 
sense of underlying business performance.
3 Adjusted figures exclude the impact of any non-underlying 
items. For more information on the criteria that constitute 
non-underlying items, refer to page 194.
4 Includes benefit from the Post Trade Solutions transaction.
5 Internal reduction of Scope 1, Scope 2 (market), Scope 3 
(selected – business travel, home working, commuting, fuel 
and energy related (FERA)) emissions vs a 2019 baseline.
Financial highlights Adjusted financial highlights1,3 Sustainability highlights
Total income growth  
including recoveries2
Total income growth excluding recoveries2 
(organic, constant currency basis)
Reduction in greenhouse 
gas emissions
5
+5.5% +7.1% -66%
2024: +5.7% 2024: +7.7% 2024: -54%
EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA margin Sustainable issuers
£4,365m⁴ +50.3%4 243
2024: £3,945m 2024: 48.8% 2024: 235
Operating profit Adjusted operating profit Female representation at senior leadership
£2,127m £3,506m 36%
2024: £1,463m 2024: £3,165m 2024: 41%
Basic earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share
For a full list of our key performance indicators 
– refer to pages 16 to 19.
238.4p 420.6p
2024: 128.8p 2024: 363.5p
Dividends per share
Our financial performance in the year, including 
the above metrics, is discussed in more detail 
in our Financial review on pages 28 to 36.
150.0p
2024: 130.0p
2
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Our investment case: all-weather growth
With market-leading positions built on trusted partnerships and 
aligned to attractive long-term trends, LSEG’s highly cash-generative, 
well-diversified financial model, driven by largely recurring revenue, 
offers a compelling investment story.
For more information on our business 
model – refer to pages 14 and 15.
Find out more about our products 
and services in our Divisional reviews 
on pages 20 to 25.
1 Based on publicly available information on listed peers.
2 For a reconciliation to statutory free cash flow, refer to our Financial review on page 35.
3 Refers to period between 1 January 2022 and 31 December 2025.
4 Includes +100bps benefit from the Post Trade Solutions transaction.
How we have positioned our business What this delivers to shareholders
We operate in markets that offer long-term, structural growth 
 – All of our businesses operate in addressable markets with 
a strong growth profile – at least mid-single-digit annual 
percentage growth or better.
 – Key drivers include the growing use of data in decision-
making, the digitalisation of markets, increasing regulation, 
capital optimisation, and reputation and risk management.
We have strong competitive positions, with scope 
to improve further
 – We are a top-three global player in all of our major businesses, 
and a clear leader in real-time data, interest rate swaps clearing, 
electronic fixed income trading and counterparty screening.
 – We are investing at a significantly higher rate than our peers1 
to enhance our products and further strengthen our 
competitive position.
We are highly diversified – by product, asset class 
and geography
 – We have leading data, trading and clearing franchises in 
equities, foreign exchange and fixed income, and a growing 
presence in commodities and derivatives.
 – We provide services in more than 170 countries, with 
operations in over 60.
The combination of our trade lifecycle and data value 
chains is unmatched
 – We are a leader in pre-trade research, counterparty risk 
management, execution, benchmarking and clearing.
 – The trade lifecycle offerings enhance the depth and breadth 
of our trusted data, with millions of datapoints added every 
second. We increasingly combine the two to develop 
differentiated products for customers.
We are a trusted, long-term partner with an open model
 – Our data and financial markets infrastructure are deeply trusted 
to power the processes of major institutions globally; through 
our partnership approach, we operate and grow critical 
platforms that are developed in partnership with the industry.
 – Our LSEG Everywhere AI strategy is a natural extension of 
our open model, delivering our data in an easy-to-access 
way to where our customers are working.
High-quality and high-visibility revenue
 – Over 70% of our income is recurring in nature and benefits 
from long-term customer relationships. Our services are 
vital to our customers’ businesses.
 – Our transactional revenue, which comes mainly from 
Tradeweb and post trade, is very high quality with strong 
existing positions and long-term growth drivers.
Uncorrelated growth
 – We are not over-exposed to any single macroeconomic 
or industry measure – be it GDP growth, debt issuance, 
volatility or equity markets performance.
 – We have achieved consistent mid to high single-digit 
organic revenue growth since 2018, despite significant 
and unforeseen factors – including the Covid-19 pandemic, 
the Russia/Ukraine war and the rapid increase in inflation 
and interest rates.
Improving profitability and cash generation
 – EBITDA margin is expanding significantly, with organic 
improvement of 250bps guided across the three years 
to 2026, with a further 130bps benefit from the Post 
Trade Solutions transaction realised over 2025 and 2026.
 – With capex intensity declining, we are delivering very 
strong free cash flow, which reached £2.4 billion in 2025
2.
Strong capital allocation track record, driving 
long-term growth and shareholder value
 – Our adjusted earnings per share (AEPS) and dividend 
CAGRs over the last 20 years have been 16% and 
17% respectively.
 – M&A has driven significant value over time, through 
the combination of major acquisitions, such as Refinitiv, 
and continued bolt-on deals to enhance our services 
to customers.
 – We are consistently proactive in deploying excess 
capital, with £4.6 billion of share buybacks executed 
since 2022
3.
Recurring revenue (as a % of 
total income incl. recoveries)
EBITDA margin expansion 
(on constant currency basis)
Capex (as a % of total 
income excl. recoveries)
Equity free cash flow 
generated in 2025
73% +210bps4 10.2% £2.4bn
3
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Returned to shareholders via share 
buybacks in 2025
£2.1bn
2024: £1bn
Total dividend per share for 2025
150.0p
2024: 130.0p
Chair’s 
statement
Overview 
LSEG delivered a strong performance in 
2025. Total income excluding recoveries was 
£9.0 billion, up 7.1% on an organic, constant 
currency basis. Adjusted operating profit grew 
to £3.5 billion, up 14.3%
1, with adjusted EPS 
increasing 15.7% on headline basis, benefiting 
from strong profit growth as well as lower net 
finance expenses, the acquisition of minorities 
in our clearing house LCH in 2024, and ongoing 
share buybacks. Equity free cash flow rose 
to £2.4 billion, with EBITDA growth converted 
to free cash flow as a result of lower capital 
intensity and effective debt management.
Our active capital allocation remains focused 
on organic investment, targeted inorganic 
growth and returning surplus capital to 
shareholders. We completed a significant 
partnership and investment in our Post Trade 
Solutions business with 11 leading banks taking 
a 20% stake. We also completed £2.1 billion 
in share buybacks in 2025, bringing the total 
buybacks to £4.6 billion since 2022. The Board 
is proposing a final dividend of 103.0 pence 
per share, bringing the total to 150.0 pence 
per share, a 15.4% increase.
Governance
The Board aims to maintain high governance 
and ethical standards. More information is 
available in our Corporate Governance Report 
from page 64.
In December, Dominic Blakemore and Martin 
Brand confirmed they will step down from the 
Board following LSEG’s Annual General Meeting 
in April 2026. Dominic has served as a 
Non-Executive Director since 1 January 2020, 
and Martin has served as a Non-Executive 
Director since February 2021. I would like to 
thank Dominic and Martin for their significant 
contributions during a period of rapid 
transformation for the Group. 
Lloyd Pitchford joined the Board in April 2025 
as a Non-Executive Director. Lloyd also 
became a member of the Audit, Risk and 
Nomination Committees, and will succeed 
Dominic as Chair of the Audit Committee 
after the conclusion of the AGM in April 2026. 
Dame Elizabeth Corley joined the Board as 
a Non-Executive Director in December 2025 
and became a member of the Risk and 
Nomination Committees.
Our Board aims to meet the diversity goals 
in the Financial Conduct Authority’s UK Listing 
Rules and Parker Review. In compliance with 
the FCA’s Listing Rules, one of four senior 
Board positions is held by a woman. At the end 
of 2025, five of 13 Board members were women, 
meaning we were just below the FCA’s Listing 
Rules target of 40% for female representation. 
We are in compliance with the Parker Review, 
with one of the Board’s Directors having 
a minority ethnic background. 
For further information on Board diversity and 
the appointment process, please refer to the 
Nomination Committee report, from page 72.
As part of our commitment to visit at least one 
international office per year, the Board visited 
LSEG’s offices in New York City, in addition to 
holding conversations in London, to hear from 
our colleagues and learn about our customers 
in these regions. The Board also participated 
in four virtual sessions in 2025 with colleagues 
from around the world.
Sustainability
LSEG plays a vital role in the world’s financial 
system and we are uniquely positioned to help 
customers meet their sustainability objectives. 
In 2025, the London Stock Exchange’s 
Sustainable Bond Market (SBM) celebrated 
its 10th anniversary. Since its inception, we 
have helped issuers raise $464 billion through 
967 individual issuances of green, social, 
sustainability and transition bonds.
We continued to have impact in the community, 
through the LSEG Foundation, providing 
funding to strategic and regional charity 
partners focused on economic empowerment. 
This funding has now directly supported over 
a million people across the world since 2022. 
We also had record numbers of colleagues 
volunteering their time this year.
You can read more about our sustainability 
strategy and the actions we are taking to 
become a strategic enabler and steward 
of sustainable economic growth in the 
sustainability section of the Strategic Report 
(pages 37 to 46). This section also covers 
LSEG’s approach to climate change and 
highlights progress against our climate targets.
Summary
In partnership with our customers, LSEG 
is reshaping how financial services are built, 
delivered and experienced, and 2025 has 
been another strong year for the Group. 
All of our businesses have strong competitive 
positions in the markets they serve and we 
have aligned the Group to benefit from 
long-term industry trends. 
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank our 
global teams and partners for their collaboration 
and support throughout the year.
Don Robert CBE
Chair
25 February, 2026
1 On organic, constant currency basis.
In partnership with 
our customers, LSEG 
is reshaping how 
financial services are 
built, delivered and 
experienced, and 2025 
has been another strong 
year for the Group.
Don Robert CBE
Chair
4London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Strategic Report
Growth in total income excluding 
recoveries (organic, constant 
currency basis)
+7.1%
2024: +7.7%
Growth in adjusted earnings 
per share
+15.7%
2024: +12.2%
Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement
Introduction 
LSEG has progressed significantly with its 
transformation in 2025. We have built a Group 
with a unique portfolio of businesses, all 
of which have strong, competitive positions. 
Our solutions support critical functions in 
the global financial system, with real strategic 
partnerships grounded in expertise and trust. 
We are highly diversified, by asset class, 
geography, customer type and product, 
giving us a very strong economic model that 
enables us to deliver growth regardless of 
macroeconomic or geopolitical volatility. As we 
look back on the year’s market-shaping events, 
we have continued to live our purpose: driving 
financial stability, empowering economies and 
enabling sustainable growth. From supporting 
our customers through the volatility of early 
April, helping them navigate the new world of 
AI with our trusted data, or sharing our insights 
with governments and regulators, we played a 
key role in keeping the markets moving in 2025.
We have aligned LSEG to a number of 
very strong and long-term industry trends. 
The growing demand for data in decision-
making is not new, but AI is driving that 
demand to new heights. Electronification and 
digitalisation of trading also continue at pace, 
and through Tradeweb and our digital markets 
infrastructure, we are at the forefront of that 
trend. And whether through FTSE Russell, 
Risk Intelligence, Markets or Data & Analytics, 
we are supporting customers as they navigate 
ever-changing regulation.
Through the unmatched breadth of our offering 
across the whole trade lifecycle and data value 
chain, we are building the future of finance, 
transforming how our customers interact with 
us, with each other and with markets. To deliver 
on this ambitious agenda, we have put in place 
a strong leadership team with the capabilities 
we need to execute for our customers.
Performance in 2025
We have delivered another year of strong 
and consistent performance, with all divisions 
contributing to revenue growth. Total income 
excluding recoveries grew 7.1% on an organic, 
constant currency basis. We have also 
improved profitability, increasing EBITDA 
margin by 210bps
1, reflecting our focus on 
delivering efficient and sustainable growth. 
We have delivered significant and, in some 
cases, radical innovation across the business. 
We have deepened industry partnerships 
and established new LSEG Data Access 
Agreements with several key customers. 
These agreements deliver significant 
commercial benefits and further demonstrate 
LSEG’s value as a long-term strategic partner.
Our Data & Analytics division continued 
its positive momentum. In June, we retired 
Eikon and moved customers to Workspace, 
a modern, customisable, modular interface 
that establishes a common platform for 
innovation and growth. This was one of the 
largest financial services workflow migrations 
in history. We have also continued to improve 
functionality with hundreds of enhancements 
over the year, including the launch of Microsoft 
Excel and PowerPoint add-ins, and the 
integration of the Workspace app into Teams. 
We have begun the roll-out of Open Directory 
to FX and Commodities user communities, with 
other communities to follow. Open Directory 
enables secure, federated collaboration across 
financial institutions. 
In Data & Feeds, we are making it easier for 
customers to find, access and consume our 
data through our LSEG Everywhere strategy. 
We have also continued to expand our content 
offering: for example, in private markets we 
have added leading datasets from Preqin® 
and Nasdaq’s eVestment. Together with 
Dun & Bradstreet data, these sources provide 
an end-to-end curated view of private markets 
that others cannot match. 
Our Analytics business continued to grow, 
supported by strong sales of our Analytics 
API with AI enablement and natural language 
functionality. Strategic partnerships with 
Snowflake and Databricks have expanded 
the distribution channels to make it easier 
for our customers to access our analytics 
within their existing workflows. We introduced 
the Model-as-a-Service offering to empower 
our customers to monetise and distribute their 
own models through our API, reaching new 
end users and enhancing the value of our 
platform. Furthermore, we have launched 
natural language functionality across other 
Analytics products, enhancing user experience 
and productivity. 
FTSE Russell delivered solid growth over the 
year across both subscription and asset-based 
revenue. We had strong commercial momentum, 
with a record 44 new equity ETFs launched 
over the year and time-to-market for custom 
indices significantly reduced. We are 
collaborating more closely with Tradeweb, 
powering FTSE Russell fixed income indices 
with Tradeweb data. In addition, in response 
to growing customer demand for private 
company data, we launched the FTSE StepStone 
Global Private Markets Indices, the first global 
benchmarks to provide daily data on private 
market performance. 
Risk Intelligence continued to deliver double-
digit growth, as we built on our strong position 
in a growing market by making significant 
product enhancements. We launched 
World-Check On Demand and World-Check 
Verify, a more flexible platform for our sanctions 
and anti-money laundering data. 
We have delivered 
another year of 
strong and consistent 
performance, with all 
divisions contributing 
to revenue growth.
David Schwimmer
Chief Executive Officer
1 Adjusted EBITDA margin improvement on constant currency 
basis; includes +100bps benefit from the Post Trade 
Solutions transaction.
5
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
But our strategic vision goes far beyond 
screening. Unlike competitors that tend to 
provide individual solutions, we operate along 
the compliance lifecycle combining digital 
identity and fraud solutions with screening 
and due diligence capabilities. We will 
continue to combine these capabilities 
into integrated solutions. 
Amidst ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty, 
our Markets division continued to support 
customers’ trading activity. Tradeweb grew 
strongly with its innovative trading protocols 
and close customer relationships driving 
record volumes. Following the acquisition 
of ICD in 2024, we launched direct US Treasury 
bill trading on the ICD portal to further integrate 
workflows for corporate treasurers. We also 
expanded algorithmic trading capabilities for US 
Treasuries, improving liquidity and execution 
for clients. Tradeweb’s platform will be 
available in Workspace in 2026. 
Within Equities, we welcomed a number of 
listings on the London Stock Exchange and 
have an active pipeline for 2026. We continue 
to innovate with the launch of two new market 
platforms, the Private Securities Market and 
Digital Markets Infrastructure (DMI), both of 
which have the potential to transform the 
capital markets ecosystem. Our DMI delivers 
blockchain-powered scale and efficiencies 
for the full asset lifecycle of a trade – from 
issuance, tokenisation and distribution to 
post-trade asset settlement and servicing. 
We have built this platform in Microsoft’s Azure 
environment, and it is asset-class agnostic. 
The first use case is in private markets and we 
have completed the first private fund transaction. 
We are adding other asset classes as adoption 
builds. Fixed income is the next use case 
following the successful trial tokenisation 
of a gilt using DMI. 
Within our post trade businesses, we continue 
to build platforms for long-term growth and 
deepen our industry partnerships. In Post 
Trade Solutions, services we provide for 
the bilateral OTC derivatives market, we 
announced a partnership with 11 leading global 
banks which have taken a 20% stake in the 
business, enhancing our strategic alignment 
with key customers. The uncleared opportunity 
is comparable to that of the cleared segment. 
Our members and clients want to manage 
their whole portfolios in one place, bringing 
efficiency to their capital and margin 
requirements, and materially simplifying and 
standardising processes. We are uniquely 
placed to do that, given the assets we have 
built and brought together under one roof, 
and our proven track record of delivering 
real value through long-term partnership. 
AI strategy
Artificial intelligence is transforming 
financial markets. With our unmatched data, 
infrastructure and partnerships, LSEG is at 
the forefront of this change. Our LSEG 
Everywhere AI strategy encompasses three 
key pillars: Trusted Data, Transformative 
Products, and Intelligent Enterprise. 
Trusted Data: customer demand for data that is 
accurate, comprehensive, verified and auditable 
is significant. Here, LSEG sets the standard 
with over 33 petabytes of trusted data: a valuable 
portfolio of proprietary, non-replicable, historical 
data supported by LSEG-defined standards 
and curation. Crucially, this data is constantly 
refreshed, updated and added to, ensuring our 
customers always work with the most current 
and most precise information available.
Transformative Products: we are applying AI 
to the products we build for our customers to 
reimagine how financial services professionals 
work – with speed, simplicity and insight. 
The introduction of the Model Context Protocol 
(MCP) is creating a new era of data-driven 
innovation. It gives us the ability to have LSEG 
AI-ready data safely presented alongside 
large language models (LLMs) and we have 
announced partnerships with Anthropic, 
Databricks, OpenAI, Snowflake and others. 
We also announced the next step in our strategic 
partnership with Microsoft, with agents built 
in Microsoft Copilot Studio, and deployed in 
Microsoft 365 Copilot, enabled with LSEG data. 
Intelligent Enterprise: we are deploying AI 
across our own business and operations – so 
we can innovate faster and serve our customers 
better. For example, in our data operations, we 
are extracting content nine times faster where 
we are using AI; and in customer operations, 
we have reduced the mean time to resolve 
customer queries by 40%.
Growth outlook
LSEG has changed beyond all recognition in 
the last five years. We will continue to do so as 
technologies evolve, regulation changes and 
customers encounter new problems to solve. 
These changes mean that we have many 
opportunities ahead. We have extraordinary 
talent combined with world-class assets, and 
we are investing and innovating to deliver 
on those opportunities, powering near-, 
medium- and longer-term growth. 
Our success is driven by the strength and 
dedication of our global team, and I am 
confident in our ability to deliver long-term 
growth and create value for our shareholders. 
On behalf of the Executive Committee, thank 
you to all our colleagues for their continued 
commitment to ‘make more possible’ for our 
customers around the world and for LSEG. 
David Schwimmer
Chief Executive Officer
25 February, 2026
Executive management team
David Schwimmer, Chief Executive Officer, 
leads day-to-day management of the 
Group, supported by the Executive 
Committee. The team meets regularly to 
review a wide range of business matters, 
including implementation of strategy, 
financial performance, investment and 
projects, talent development, corporate 
culture, and setting and monitoring of 
performance targets.
Profiles of the Executive team provided 
on the next page are as at January 2026. 
For further information on David Schwimmer, 
as well as on our Chief Financial Officer, 
Michel-Alain Proch, who are also members 
of the Board of Directors, see our Board 
of Directors overview on page 60.
Changes to the Executive Committee
Steve John joined the Group in April 2025 
as Chief Corporate Affairs & Marketing Officer.
Ron Lefferts transitioned from his role as 
Head of Sales and Account Management 
to become Co-Head of the Data & Analytics 
division alongside Gianluca Biagini, who 
joined LSEG in August 2025.
Chris Coleman was appointed as Head 
of Sales and Account Management, 
succeeding Ron Lefferts. Chris joined 
the Group in January 2026.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
6
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Catherine Johnson
General Counsel
Joined LSEG in 1996
Catherine manages a global team of lawyers 
and compliance professionals, advising the 
Board and senior executives on key legal and 
compliance issues, and strategic initiatives. 
Catherine qualified as a lawyer in 1993 and 
has held a number of senior roles in her 
career at LSEG.
Steve John
Chief Corporate Affairs & Marketing Officer
Joined LSEG in April 2025
Steve leads LSEG’s Corporate Affairs & 
Marketing function, covering marketing, 
communications, government relations, 
sustainability and central teams. He brings 
extensive experience from senior roles at 
McKinsey & Company, Bupa and PepsiCo, 
most recently serving as Chief Communications 
and Brand Officer at HSBC Group.
Erica Bourne
Chief People Officer
Joined LSEG in 2023
As CPO, Erica leads LSEG’s HR policies and 
programmes. With over 25 years of experience, 
Erica has held a number of leadership and 
executive roles across technology, consulting 
and financial services, and previously led the 
People function at Burberry Group.
Michel-Alain Proch
Group Chief Financial Officer
Joined LSEG in 2024
As CFO, Michel-Alain le ads LSEG’s global 
finance organisation. He previously served 
as Group CFO of Publicis Groupe, and prior 
to that held CFO and senior executive roles at 
Ingenico and Atos, where he oversaw several 
major strategic acquisitions and integrations.
David Schwimmer 
Group Chief Executive Officer
Joined LSEG in 2018
As CEO, David has led the Group’s 
transformation into a global leader in financial 
markets infrastructure and data services. 
He began his career in law before spending 
20 years at Goldman Sachs in a number of 
senior roles, most recently as Global Head 
of Market Structures.
Ron Lefferts
Co-Head of Data & Analytics
Joined LSEG in 2021
Based in the US, Ron shares responsibility 
for leading LSEG’s Data & Analytics division. 
He previously headed LSEG’s global Sales 
& Account Management function and has 
over 25 years of experience in technology 
consulting and financial services, including 
senior roles at Protiviti and IBM.
Gianluca Biagini
Co-Head of Data & Analytics
Joined LSEG in August 2025
Based in the UK, Gianluca co-leads LSEG’s 
Data & Analytics division. Before joining 
LSEG, Gianluca led Data, Valuations and Risk 
Analytics at S&P Global Market Intelligence. 
Prior to his tenure at S&P Global, Gianluca 
played a pivotal role in founding and globally 
expanding Bloomberg Data Solutions.
Balbir Bakhshi
Chief Risk Officer
Joined LSEG in 2021
Balbir oversees risk management at LSEG, 
including risk identification and mitigation. 
He previously led Non-Financial  Risk 
Management at Deutsche Bank and spent 
more than 20 years in senior risk leadership 
roles at Credit Suisse.
Chris Coleman
Head of Sales and Account Management
Joined LSEG in January 2026
Chris is responsible for LSEG’s global Sales 
and Account Management team, driving 
revenue growth and strengthening customer 
partnerships. He brings over 30 years 
of experience in sales and relationship 
management, most recently as Executive 
Vice President, Head of Global Client 
Coverage at State Street.
Daniel Maguire
Head of Markets and CEO, LCH Group
Joined LSEG in 2008
Daniel has held various senior roles across 
LCH and LSEG, with 26 years of experience 
in capital markets, risk and default 
management, product management and 
regulatory strategy, and over 20 years spent 
at LSEG across two tenures.
Pascal Boillat
Chief Operating Officer
Joined LSEG in 2024
Pascal oversees operational activities at 
LSEG, bringing over 35 years’ experience in 
technology and operations for global financial 
institutions. Previously, he served as Group 
Executive at Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
(CBA), managing technology, operations and 
data functions.
Irfan Hussain
Chief Information Officer
Joined LSEG in 2024
Irfan leads LSEG’s technology and engineering 
team, driving innovation in global financial 
markets. In a 28-year career at Goldman Sachs, 
Irfan held many senior positions including, 
most recently, Chief Operating & Strategy 
Officer in the Engineering division.
Executive management team
7
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Market trends and our response
Our success is built on our 
ability to understand and 
capitalise on the structural 
changes that are shaping 
financial markets and the 
global economy.
Demand for data and its 
integration into workflows
Rise of new technologies 
including AI
Electronification of  
financial markets and 
digitalisation of trading
Regulation, risk management  
and capital optimisation
Increased macroeconomic 
uncertainty and volatility
Overview and impact Overview and impact
Global demand continues to grow for 
high quality, trusted and accurate data 
that can be easily integrated into workflows. 
There is continued demand for datasets 
and products covering new and alternative 
asset classes, such as private markets. 
Customers also increasingly expect 
end-to-end experiences, and to be met 
in their preferred channels and 
commercial models.
AI is amplifying demand for reliable, 
auditable and proprietary data, particularly 
as firms seek to power advanced analytics 
and algorithmic strategies.
AI is also creating new opportunities for 
innovation and raising client expectations 
for functionality and personalisation, 
including tools that can deliver advanced 
insights and more intuitive user experiences.
Advances in technology, particularly 
AI, are also driving opportunities for 
significant operational efficiencies 
through process automation.
Electronification of financial markets 
continues to drive trading volume 
growth, improve efficiency and enable 
access to liquidity. This trend is expected 
to continue as many asset classes are 
far from reaching maturity in adoption 
of electronic and automated trading.
Digitalisation is also unlocking growth 
across multiple segments including 
digital exchanges, digital payments 
and currencies, and retail and wealth, 
driving greater demand for efficiency 
and financial security across the 
trade lifecycle. 
Accelerated digitalisation also creates 
new risks for our clients and their 
customers. Firms are investing in 
mitigating these risks, seeking to better 
understand their customer base and 
supply network, and minimise incidences 
of fraud and illicit activity through 
anti-money laundering and digital 
customer identification solutions.
Financial markets are undergoing structural 
change as regulatory frameworks evolve 
and diverge across jurisdictions, adding 
complexity for providers operating on 
a global scale. Liquidity fragmentation 
across venues adds further challenges 
for execution and risk management.
At the same time, regulatory and capital 
requirements continue to increase the 
importance of efficiency and financial 
security, driving demand for solutions that 
optimise balance sheets and streamline 
post-trade processes. These shifts 
underscore the importance of integrated 
platforms and clearing services that can 
deliver transparency, resilience and cost 
savings in an increasingly interconnected 
and complex environment.
The evolving inflation and interest rate 
environment, geopolitical instability, 
fragmentation and uneven global 
growth have created a challenging 
environment for investors, companies 
and financial institutions.
These dynamics, seen throughout 2025, 
highlight the importance of trusted venues 
and stable clearing houses that are capable 
of meeting demand spikes and support 
financial stability.
LSEG response LSEG response
We continue to provide clients with 
a uniquely broad offering of reliable, 
auditable and proprietary data, including 
from our venues. We are also continuing 
to invest to enhance the breadth of our 
data offering in areas such as private 
markets. See page 12. 
With LSEG Workspace, we are creating 
a seamless, end-to-end experience that 
increasingly acts as a primary gateway 
to LSEG’s leading content, analytics and 
collaboration tools, providing access 
to services across the Group, including 
LCH, FX, FTSE Russell and, in the near 
future, Tradeweb. Our open ecosystem 
approach, tailored Workspace offering 
and initiatives such as custom index 
creation in FTSE Russell, allow us to 
deliver flexible, integrated solutions.
We are executing our LSEG Everywhere 
AI strategy built on trusted data and 
our open approach to unlock new 
opportunities. Leveraging Model Context 
Protocol to allow governed access to our 
data, we have partnered with a number 
of providers, including Anthropic (Claude), 
OpenAI, Rogo, Snowflake and Databricks 
to serve our customers wherever they 
choose to work. 
A key differentiator is the freshness and 
scale of our real-time data, with up to 
15 million new datapoints added every 
second, ensuring customers have access 
to information that is constantly updated, 
highly accurate and dependable in fast 
moving global markets. See page 21.
Our Fixed Income and FX venues are 
well positioned to capitalise on the 
electronification trend and we are 
driving innovation to remain the platform 
of choice. We are embracing the 
digitalisation of assets, building digital 
market infrastructure, launching Digital 
Asset Clear and developing digital asset 
indices. Our Private Securities Market, 
which received regulatory approval in 
2025, is also digitalising the previously 
manual process of private placements, 
creating a repeatable process built 
on existing market infrastructure. 
We also continue to develop innovative 
solutions in Risk Intelligence, such as 
World-Check On Demand, transforming 
the way data is created and delivered 
and supporting customers’ compliance, 
verification and Know Your Customer 
(KYC) workflows. See page 23.
We are using our expertise in clearing, 
combined with our deep and long-
standing customer relationships, to 
drive innovation in the largely untapped 
uncleared space, working alongside 
our partners to support their regulatory 
compliance and capital optimisation 
needs. In 2025, 11 global banks invested 
in Post Trade Solutions. See page 25.
Through our market infrastructure 
businesses, we play a key role in helping 
participants to navigate this market 
environment and manage risk. Heightened 
market volatility drives revenue for 
businesses such as our clearing houses 
(28% YoY growth in SwapClear trade count 
vs 2024), FX venues (10% YoY growth in 
ADV vs 2024) and Tradeweb (17% YoY 
growth in ADV vs 2024).
8
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Market trends and our response continued
Demand for data and its 
integration into workflows
Rise of new technologies 
including AI
Electronification of  
financial markets and 
digitalisation of trading
Regulation, risk management  
and capital optimisation
Increased macroeconomic 
uncertainty and volatility
Overview and impact Overview and impact
Global demand continues to grow for 
high quality, trusted and accurate data 
that can be easily integrated into workflows. 
There is continued demand for datasets 
and products covering new and alternative 
asset classes, such as private markets. 
Customers also increasingly expect 
end-to-end experiences, and to be met 
in their preferred channels and 
commercial models.
AI is amplifying demand for reliable, 
auditable and proprietary data, particularly 
as firms seek to power advanced analytics 
and algorithmic strategies.
AI is also creating new opportunities for 
innovation and raising client expectations 
for functionality and personalisation, 
including tools that can deliver advanced 
insights and more intuitive user experiences.
Advances in technology, particularly 
AI, are also driving opportunities for 
significant operational efficiencies 
through process automation.
Electronification of financial markets 
continues to drive trading volume 
growth, improve efficiency and enable 
access to liquidity. This trend is expected 
to continue as many asset classes are 
far from reaching maturity in adoption 
of electronic and automated trading.
Digitalisation is also unlocking growth 
across multiple segments including 
digital exchanges, digital payments 
and currencies, and retail and wealth, 
driving greater demand for efficiency 
and financial security across the 
trade lifecycle. 
Accelerated digitalisation also creates 
new risks for our clients and their 
customers. Firms are investing in 
mitigating these risks, seeking to better 
understand their customer base and 
supply network, and minimise incidences 
of fraud and illicit activity through 
anti-money laundering and digital 
customer identification solutions.
Financial markets are undergoing structural 
change as regulatory frameworks evolve 
and diverge across jurisdictions, adding 
complexity for providers operating on 
a global scale. Liquidity fragmentation 
across venues adds further challenges 
for execution and risk management.
At the same time, regulatory and capital 
requirements continue to increase the 
importance of efficiency and financial 
security, driving demand for solutions that 
optimise balance sheets and streamline 
post-trade processes. These shifts 
underscore the importance of integrated 
platforms and clearing services that can 
deliver transparency, resilience and cost 
savings in an increasingly interconnected 
and complex environment.
The evolving inflation and interest rate 
environment, geopolitical instability, 
fragmentation and uneven global 
growth have created a challenging 
environment for investors, companies 
and financial institutions.
These dynamics, seen throughout 2025, 
highlight the importance of trusted venues 
and stable clearing houses that are capable 
of meeting demand spikes and support 
financial stability.
LSEG response LSEG response
We continue to provide clients with 
a uniquely broad offering of reliable, 
auditable and proprietary data, including 
from our venues. We are also continuing 
to invest to enhance the breadth of our 
data offering in areas such as private 
markets. See page 12. 
With LSEG Workspace, we are creating 
a seamless, end-to-end experience that 
increasingly acts as a primary gateway 
to LSEG’s leading content, analytics and 
collaboration tools, providing access 
to services across the Group, including 
LCH, FX, FTSE Russell and, in the near 
future, Tradeweb. Our open ecosystem 
approach, tailored Workspace offering 
and initiatives such as custom index 
creation in FTSE Russell, allow us to 
deliver flexible, integrated solutions.
We are executing our LSEG Everywhere 
AI strategy built on trusted data and 
our open approach to unlock new 
opportunities. Leveraging Model Context 
Protocol to allow governed access to our 
data, we have partnered with a number 
of providers, including Anthropic (Claude), 
OpenAI, Rogo, Snowflake and Databricks 
to serve our customers wherever they 
choose to work. 
A key differentiator is the freshness and 
scale of our real-time data, with up to 
15 million new datapoints added every 
second, ensuring customers have access 
to information that is constantly updated, 
highly accurate and dependable in fast 
moving global markets. See page 21.
Our Fixed Income and FX venues are 
well positioned to capitalise on the 
electronification trend and we are 
driving innovation to remain the platform 
of choice. We are embracing the 
digitalisation of assets, building digital 
market infrastructure, launching Digital 
Asset Clear and developing digital asset 
indices. Our Private Securities Market, 
which received regulatory approval in 
2025, is also digitalising the previously 
manual process of private placements, 
creating a repeatable process built 
on existing market infrastructure. 
We also continue to develop innovative 
solutions in Risk Intelligence, such as 
World-Check On Demand, transforming 
the way data is created and delivered 
and supporting customers’ compliance, 
verification and Know Your Customer 
(KYC) workflows. See page 23.
We are using our expertise in clearing, 
combined with our deep and long-
standing customer relationships, to 
drive innovation in the largely untapped 
uncleared space, working alongside 
our partners to support their regulatory 
compliance and capital optimisation 
needs. In 2025, 11 global banks invested 
in Post Trade Solutions. See page 25.
Through our market infrastructure 
businesses, we play a key role in helping 
participants to navigate this market 
environment and manage risk. Heightened 
market volatility drives revenue for 
businesses such as our clearing houses 
(28% YoY growth in SwapClear trade count 
vs 2024), FX venues (10% YoY growth in 
ADV vs 2024) and Tradeweb (17% YoY 
growth in ADV vs 2024).
9
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Our purpose
LSEG is a key participant in the global 
economy as a leading financial markets 
infrastructure and data provider.
Our purpose is driving financial stability, 
empowering economies and enabling 
customers to create sustainable growth.
We drive financial stability
by operating businesses that  
are of systemic importance, 
fundamental to the financial 
ecosystems and meet critical 
customer needs.
We empower economies
by helping our customers  
to raise capital, support 
employment, innovate and 
access global financial networks, 
across multiple asset classes.
We enable customers to  
create sustainable growth
by providing the tools and data  
that enable financial markets to 
manage risk and make informed 
investment decisions. 
This purpose underpins everything we do and sets the foundation for our strategy, our operations and our culture.
Purpose and strategy
10
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
AI Strategy – LSEG Everywhere
Artificial intelligence is transforming financial markets. With our unmatched data, infrastructure 
and partnerships, we are uniquely positioned at the forefront of this change across three 
key pillars:
Our strategy
Our strategy is to provide customers with a global, multi-asset 
class financial markets infrastructure and data ecosystem, 
operating across the trade lifecycle and data value chain. 
Global, multi-asset 
class FMI and data 
provider across  
the trade lifecycle
 
Open 
ecosystem
Integrated  
solutions, including  
AI functionality
Trusted to 
deliver services  
meeting business-
critical needs
Deep partnership 
with our customers
AI-enabled  
data machine  
and distribution
Purpose and strategy continued
Trusted Data
We curate trusted, 
high-quality data to scale AI 
in financial services through 
our open, LLM-agnostic 
partnership approach.
Transformative Products
We are reimagining 
how financial services 
professionals work, with 
AI-enabled products that 
bring speed, simplicity 
and conviction to our 
customers’ workflows 
and decision-making.
Intelligent Enterprise
We are deploying AI across 
our own business, so we 
can innovate faster and 
serve our customers better.
Global, multi-asset class FMI and data 
provider across the trade lifecycle
We serve ever more of our customers’ 
needs pre-, at and post-trade, across asset 
classes and geographies.
Integrated solutions, including 
AI functionality
We offer seamless integration across 
different elements of our product set, 
including AI functionality, to drive greater 
insights from our data and reduce friction 
in customer workflows.
AI-enabled data machine and distribution
To enhance our ability to enrich our leading 
data offering and better monetise it, we are 
investing in our ‘data turbine’, from content 
ingestion through to data management and 
distribution – accelerated by AI and our 
partnership with a number of the world’s 
leading technology companies.
Trusted to deliver services meeting 
business-critical needs
Our long-standing heritage of playing a vital 
role in global financial markets remains at 
the core of what we do; our customers trust 
and rely on us to serve critical needs.
Deep partnership with our customers
Our level of relevance to our customers 
creates the opportunity for strong 
partnership. From developing our clearing 
houses to now building new products 
powered by AI, we partner with our 
customers to transform industries.
Open ecosystem
Interoperability is in our DNA. When other 
exchange groups focused on vertical 
integration of trading and clearing, we 
championed open access – and stay true 
to this philosophy today with our market 
infrastructure and our data.
11
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Progress in 2025 Priorities in 2026
Advancing our partnership with Microsoft, we launched 
a new Workspace Office Add-in and Workspace app 
in Teams. We continue to pilot GenAI tools in Workspace 
and delivered our first agentic workflows. 
Under our LSEG Everywhere strategy, we launched MCP 
infrastructure, giving customers enhanced connectivity 
and allowing them to create their own AI agents using 
LSEG data in Microsoft Copilot Studio. LSEG’s AI-ready 
content will also be accessible to licensed ChatGPT and 
Claude users via MCP. 
Other AI-driven distribution partnerships for our trusted 
data launched during 2025 include Rogo, Databricks and 
Snowflake, supporting our goal to make licensed LSEG 
data available wherever our customers are working. 
We are investing in products that improve liquidity in 
growing and less liquid asset classes. These include the 
new Private Securities Market and private company data 
partnerships with Nasdaq, Preqin and StepStone and 
the launch of the FTSE StepStone Global Private Market 
Indices. We have also facilitated the first trade on our 
Digital Markets Infrastructure platform.
In our post trade business, we continued the strong 
pace of innovation, launching crypto derivatives clearing 
through DigitalAssetClear and Listed Rates UST futures 
with FMX, and streamlined ForexClear FX clearing and 
settlement by migrating to the CLS main session.
In Risk Intelligence, we launched World-Check On 
Demand, providing continuous access to our leading 
screening platform in real time. The Global Account 
Verification Portal also expanded to EMEA and APAC, 
enabling customers to instantly verify bank accounts 
and International Bank Account Numbers across dozens 
of countries.
Delivery of the 2026 LSEG-Microsoft 
Partnership roadmap remains a key priority 
and we are executing on our LSEG 
Everywhere strategy.
Priorities for 2026 include: 
 – Scaling Open Directory – a cross-firm 
communications tool and collaboration 
network within Microsoft Teams, enriched 
with LSEG’s data and analytics
 – Rolling out Workspace AI functionality 
at scale
 – Developing existing and new partnerships 
to expand LSEG Everywhere
 – Launching Model-as-a-Service, enabling 
customers to monetise proprietary models 
using LSEG infrastructure
We will also continue to partner with clients 
to scale adoption of our new products and 
services in Markets, including:
 – Building critical mass of companies and 
investors on our Private Securities Market
 – Expanding deployment of our Digital 
Markets Infrastructure
 – Delivering on our vision for Post Trade 
Solutions, following the recent investment 
from global banks
 – Launching CNH clearing and settlement 
services with connectivity to OmniClear 
in Hong Kong
Launching 
new products  
and creating 
new markets
Execution priorities
We completed the migration of around 350,000 users 
to our next-generation workflow tool, LSEG Workspace, 
sunsetting the legacy platform in the process. 
We re-platformed our trade routing network in Microsoft 
Azure, connecting 1,600 brokers and asset managers 
via the cloud. We also made substantial progress in 
migrating to software-defined networks, reducing device 
obsolescence by 80% while tripling capacity.
We are increasingly embedding AI into our processes. 
For example, our AI-powered Question and Answer 
Service (QAS) is now being used in over 80% of all 
customer cases, enabling half of customer queries 
to be resolved within an hour.
We are investing to enable scalable 
growth and embedding a product-led 
operating model.
Priorities for 2026 include:
 – Re-platforming and scaling our real-time 
data network
 – Delivering our modernisation programmes 
across FTSE Russell and FX
 – Accelerating the transformation of 
our database estate to enable further 
multi-cloud content distribution
Modernising
our platforms
and processes
Our progress in 2025 and evolving priorities for 2026 and beyond
Purpose and strategy continued
12
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Progress in 2025 Priorities in 2026
Delivering 
reliably and 
resiliently for 
the markets 
and our 
customers
We continue to migrate services to the cloud, including 
LCH’s core collateral management platform, enhancing 
scalability and resiliency. 
We have made enhancements in our Engineering 
platforms and improved risk management, which have 
reduced major incidents by 50%, while increasing release 
velocity by 25%. 
We are delivering resiliency improvements across 
the business through strengthened controls, process 
automation and a focus on risk culture.
We continue to enhance the reliability of 
customer experience across our product suite.
Priorities for 2026 include:
 – Ongoing migration of data and 
applications to Microsoft Azure, enhancing 
data onboarding and product delivery
 – Continued development and 
implementation of a unified revenue 
and billing platform
Execution priorities
Purpose and strategy continued
Our progress in 2025 and evolving priorities for 2026 and beyond continued
Improving 
operating 
leverage
We continue to integrate our leading content and 
products with Workspace, offering customers a 
more seamless end-to-end experience. For example, 
customers can now access FXall, FTSE Russell indices 
and LCH data via Workspace. We have also consolidated 
our proprietary research and content across communities 
(LSEG Research and Insights) into Workspace.
We are unifying and improving the customer experience. 
We continue to expand our collaboration with Tradeweb, 
including a new partnership between LCH RepoAgent 
and Tradeweb, to improve settlement efficiency in 
bilateral markets. We have further expanded FTSE 
Russell’s partnership with Tradeweb, including updating 
the price source for a number of our indices to Tradeweb.
We are making the breadth of Data & Analytics products 
more accessible to our customers through a single 
commercial contract, LSEG Data Access (LDA). 
These agreements now account for 16% of D&A ASV 
(vs 9% in 2024).
Our goal is to deliver the best value possible 
to our customers by offering our integrated 
products and solutions across the trade 
lifecycle and data value chain, underpinned 
by AI. 
Priorities for 2026 include:
 – Consolidating our relationships with 
more global financial institutions through 
long-term, strategic LDA partnerships
 – Improving monetisation of the strong 
growth in data consumption through 
LSEG Everywhere partnerships
 – Deepening our collaboration with 
Tradeweb, including integrating 
Tradeweb’s data and dealing platform 
into Workspace
Monetising 
our integrated 
business
We delivered 210bps of EBITDA margin expansion1, of 
which 110bps reflected underlying operational improvement.
We continue to optimise staff costs, including through our 
engineering workforce in-sourcing programme: 60% of 
our engineers are now internal, compared to 49% in 2024. 
This progress is consistent with the wider Group, where 
the proportion of internal employees
2 has increased to 
75% from 71% last year, driven by a reduction in external 
contractors from c. 11,000 to c. 9,200.
We have realised efficiency gains from Zero-Based 
Budgeting for large components of our cost base and 
driven operating efficiencies from automation of content 
collection and ingestion. 
In addition, the Post Trade Solutions transaction 
described on page 27 improved the Group EBITDA 
margin by a further 100bps year-on-year.
We will complete our objective of improving 
adjusted EBITDA margin by 250bps 
organically across the three years to 2026, 
or by 380bps including the benefit of the 
Post Trade Solutions transaction:
 – Optimising staff costs and reducing 
external headcount, as we transition to 
a product-led operating model, heading 
towards our target engineering resource 
mix of 80% internal
 – Scaling use of AI productivity tools 
to increase operational efficiency, 
particularly in Engineering, Operations, 
Sales and Marketing
 – Continuing to deliver our multi-cloud strategy 
1 On constant currency basis.
2 Includes Tradeweb.
13
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
What we do
We are a leading provider of financial markets infrastructure and data. We bring deep expertise 
across the financial markets value chain and effectively leverage innovative technologies and AI.
Our business model
Geographies
Channels Customers
Asset Classes
Divisions
APAC: 15% Group income
EM
EA: 42% Group income
Americas: 43% Group income
Markets
Risk Intelligence
FTSE Russell
Data & Analytics
Multi-asset class
Commodities and alternatives
FX
Fixed income
Equities
Banking and brokerage
Buy-side and wealth
Corporate and other
Our of erings
span multiple asset
classes, and cash
and derivatives
enabling distribution of our products
Partners: sales and support through partner network
Low touch: central hub service model
Microsoft: 10-year strategic partnership
High touch: dedicated in-market coverage
We are developing
our channels to serve
customers better and
broaden our reach
a dedicated
W
e are 
partner to our
custom
ers globally
across corporate communities
and growing footprint
sector and have a sizeable
We are a leading
partner to the 
f nancial services
Our four divisions provide
products and servicesthat span the
trade lifecycle
100m
instruments covered 
by LSEG’s real-time data
$523bn
2025 FX total ADV
>43,000
customers served
>1,700
partners2
>60
locations globally
$18.1tn
2025 FTSE Russell AUM
$688tn
total volume on 
Tradeweb in 2025
100
customers in the top 
100 global banks
1
>33 petabytes
of LSEG data is being 
made AI-ready
>26,000
employees globally
1 Excluding Russian banks; top 100 banks by total assets.
2 D&A only.
14
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Our business model continued
How we are structured and the value we create
Data value chain Serving financial services and new customer segments
1 Share of Group income excl. recoveries.
Capital Formation  
and Issuance
Pre-Trade and  
Liquidity Discovery Trade Execution Post-Trade and  
Capital Optimisation
Data Sourcing Data Management  
and Transformation Models and Analytics Distribution
Data & Analytics
Delivers leading breadth 
and depth of trusted, 
high-quality data and 
actionable insights to 
inform, equip and support 
clients in their business-
critical operations and 
decision-making.
FTSE Russell
Provides a leading range 
of category-defining 
benchmarks and indices 
to support investors 
in making informed 
decisions, manage risk 
and capitalise on new 
investment opportunities.
Risk Intelligence
Provides clients with 
a comprehensive suite 
of trusted solutions that 
help them efficiently and 
effectively navigate risks 
including fraud, reputation, 
financial crime and 
compliance.
Markets
Partners with the market 
and its participants across 
the trade lifecycle, providing 
scalable, essential, trusted 
and resilient infrastructure 
and innovative solutions 
across asset classes 
and geographies.
Income
£4.0bn
Share of Group income 44%1
£1.0bn
Share of Group income 11%1
£0.6bn
Share of Group income 6%1
£3.5bn
Share of Group income 39%1
Revenue  
model
Recurring
98%
Transactional
2%
Recurring
100%
Recurring
78%
Transactional
22%
Transactional
59%
Net 
Treasury
Income
7%
Recurring
33%
Other market 
participants 
include
 – Bloomberg
 – S&P Global
 – FactSet
 – S&P Global
 – MSCI
 – RELX
 – Dow Jones
 – Moody’s
 – MarketAxess
 – CBOE Global Markets
 – Deutsche Borse
 – CME
We have a well defined and compelling value proposition across our divisions, which allows 
us to offer a seamlessly integrated end-to-end service that meets our clients’ business-critical 
needs across the increasingly interlinked trade lifecycle and data value chain.
Trade lifecycle Serving customers pre-, at- and post-trade
15
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
2025 financial KPIs
Our core financial KPIs 
measure the rate and quality 
of growth, profitability 
and capital efficiency. 
Our performance continues 
to demonstrate the value we 
are delivering for both our 
customers and shareholders.
These KPIs align with our Group Strategic Objectives 
(GSOs) which help determine Executive Director 
remuneration and performance-related pay for all 
employees. Further detail on the GSO performance 
assessment can be found in our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 103.
1 Organic constant currency income growth, 
excluding recoveries.
2 For more information on the criteria that constitute 
non-underlying items, see page 194.
3 Based on an equivalent perimeter of the Group as 
in 2023 and excluding the benefit from the Post Trade 
Solutions transaction.
4 To calculate capex intensity, we use cash capital 
expenditure, excluding sales commissions.
Organic income growth1 Annual Subscription Value (ASV) growth Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted earnings per share (AEPS) Capex intensity
Definition
Income growth, independent of FX 
movements and any impact from acquisitions 
or disposals.
Definition
A point-in-time measure of our book 
of recurring contracts compared to 
12 months ago.
Definition
EBITDA – excluding non-underlying items2 
– over total income (excluding recoveries).
Definition
Earnings per share, adjusted to remove any 
non-underlying items.
2
Definition
Capital expenditure4 as a proportion of total 
income excluding recoveries.
Why this is important for LSEG
Income growth is a key measure of our 
success since we operate in growing 
markets and aim to hold or grow market 
share. For 2025, we guided to organic 
income growth (excluding recoveries) 
of 6.5-7.5%.
Our medium-term guidance is to deliver 
mid-to-high single digit organic income 
growth annually.
Why this is important for LSEG
A high proportion of our revenues across 
Data & Analytics, FTSE Russell and Risk 
Intelligence are subscription-based with 
a high degree of visibility. ASV growth 
measures the year-on-year growth of that 
recurring book of business at a point in time. 
ASV growth has three key drivers: retention, 
new sales and price increases.
Why this is important for LSEG
We are building a more efficient, scalable 
business and expanding underlying 
profitability over time, demonstrating the 
intrinsic operating leverage of the Group. 
As we grow our revenue while modernising 
our technology infrastructure and streamlining 
our cost base, improving margin allows us 
to reinvest for future growth. 
For 2025, we guided to organic EBITDA 
margin expansion of 50–100bps on an 
organic constant currency basis.
Why this is important for LSEG
AEPS is a key financial metric that is both 
central to our market valuation and a significant 
element of employees’ performance-related 
remuneration. Growth in our AEPS reflects our 
degree of success in driving strong top-line 
performance, as well as managing costs 
including tax and interest, and capital allocation.
Why this is important for LSEG
In accordance with our guidance, our capex 
intensity has moderated as the majority 
of the Refinitiv integration investment has 
concluded. Capex is now focused on 
pursuing a wide range of growth initiatives. 
While we expect capex intensity to reduce 
further, any declines from here are likely to 
be incremental, as we intend to maintain the 
ratio at a high single-digit level to support 
continued growth and innovation.
Performance
We delivered organic income growth of 7.1% 
in 2025, successfully meeting our guidance. 
As expected, growth moderated from the 
prior year, reflecting a normalisation in both 
Tradeweb and FTSE Russell following their 
exceptionally strong performances in 2024. 
Data & Analytics continued to accelerate, 
supported by the completion of Eikon-to-
Workspace migration, broader cloud 
distribution and the launch of our first 
jointly-developed solutions with Microsoft. 
Risk Intelligence delivered solid underlying 
growth underpinned by sustained client 
demand and ongoing product innovation. 
In Markets, we continued to expand into new 
markets and asset classes and captured the 
benefit of elevated volumes during the year. 
For 2026, our guidance for organic income 
growth is 6.5-7.5%.
Performance
We achieved ASV growth of 5.9% as of 
December 2025, reflecting a resilient 
performance and delivery on our commitment 
to reacceleration into year end. Modest 
deceleration versus the prior year partly 
reflected normalisation of growth in FTSE 
Russell and Risk Intelligence, and the impact 
of the UBS/Credit Suisse merger, which led 
to contract optimisation and reduced their 
contribution to Data & Analytics ASV.
Usage-based revenue models are not 
captured within ASV and, as these models 
become increasingly adopted across 
our business, ASV may become a less 
comprehensive indicator of overall revenue 
performance over time. As our commercial 
model evolves, we expect to transition to 
a revised set of commercial KPIs in 2026 
that provide a better forward-lookin g view 
of the business momentum.
Performance
Our 2025 adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 
50.3%, up 150bps from last year. Excluding 
a 60bps FX headwind, margin increased by 
210bps on a constant currency basis. Of the 
210bps expansion, 100bps was achieved 
through the Post Trade Solutions transaction, 
and 110bps was delivered organically. 
This result exceeded all guidance provided 
throughout the year – 50–100bps announced 
in February 2025, increased to 75–100bps 
in July 2025, and subsequently raised 
to 100bps in October 2025. 
We remain confident in delivering on our 
guidance to increase adjusted EBITDA 
margin by c.250bps
3 across the three years 
to 2026, excluding the impact of M&A. 
In 2026, we are targeting a further +80-
100bps increase in adjusted EBITDA margin, 
supported by continuous efficiency 
improvements and operating leverage.
Performance
Adjusted earnings per share (AEPS) from 
continuing operations was 420.6 pence. 
The 15.7% increase in AEPS year-on-year was 
driven by a strong improvement in underlying 
profitability and the changes in the SwapClear 
revenue share agreement, partly offset by 
higher depreciation – reflecting our continued 
investment in technology and product – and 
higher tax expense and non-controlling 
interest as a result of Tradeweb’s continued 
growth. Share buybacks reduced the average 
share count in 2025, which acted as a tailwind 
for AEPS.
Performance
Capex intensity in 2025 was 10.2%, in line 
with our full-year 2025 guidance of around 
10% and 110bps lower than in 2024, due to 
lower costs related to the Refinitiv integration 
and an improved investment control process. 
Cash capex in the year of £919 million 
reflected ongoing investment in key growth 
programmes. We have accelerated product 
innovation in our Workspace platform, 
investing in new, powerful capabilities 
in partnership with Microsoft, expanded 
and deepened our best-in-class data and 
analytics offering, and enhanced content 
and distribution capabilities of this data. 
We have also invested in platforms for 
future growth and launched new products 
in our Markets, FTSE Russell and Risk 
Intelligence businesses. 
In 2026, we are guiding to further capex 
intensity improvement to c. 9.5%.
Organic income growth1 ASV growth Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted earnings per share Capex intensity
+7.1% +5.9% 50.3% 420.6p 10.2%
2024: +7.7% 2024: +6.3% 2024: 48.8% 2024: 363.5p 2024: 11.3%
2025
 7.1%
2024
2023
 7.1%
 7.7%
2025
2024
2023  6.7%
 5.9%
 6.3%
2025
2024
2023  47.2%
 50.3%
 48.8%
2025
2024
2023  323.9p
 420.6p
 363.5p
2025
2024
2023  12.9%
 10.2%
 11.3%
Link to strategic objectives
Income growth is key in delivering our 
adjusted operating profit (AOP) targets, which 
carry a 60% weighting in determining annual 
performance-related pay.
Link to strategic objectives
ASV growth can be an indicator of future 
income growth. Delivery against Future 
Growth KPIs carries a 15% weighting in 
determining annual performance-related pay.
Link to strategic objectives
EBITDA margin performance is a key factor 
in determining Group AOP, while also aligning 
with our Efficiency objective.
Link to strategic objectives
Earnings per share growth is a reflection of 
profitability, linked to Group AOP and aligning 
with our Efficiency objective.
Link to strategic objectives
Falling capex intensity is a product of 
both accelerating growth and disciplined 
investment, in line with our Efficiency objective.
16
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Organic income growth1 Annual Subscription Value (ASV) growth Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted earnings per share (AEPS) Capex intensity
Definition
Income growth, independent of FX 
movements and any impact from acquisitions 
or disposals.
Definition
A point-in-time measure of our book 
of recurring contracts compared to 
12 months ago.
Definition
EBITDA – excluding non-underlying items2 
– over total income (excluding recoveries).
Definition
Earnings per share, adjusted to remove any 
non-underlying items. 2
Definition
Capital expenditure4 as a proportion of total 
income excluding recoveries.
Why this is important for LSEG
Income growth is a key measure of our 
success since we operate in growing 
markets and aim to hold or grow market 
share. For 2025, we guided to organic 
income growth (excluding recoveries) 
of 6.5-7.5%.
Our medium-term guidance is to deliver 
mid-to-high single digit organic income 
growth annually.
Why this is important for LSEG
A high proportion of our revenues across 
Data & Analytics, FTSE Russell and Risk 
Intelligence are subscription-based with 
a high degree of visibility. ASV growth 
measures the year-on-year growth of that 
recurring book of business at a point in time. 
ASV growth has three key drivers: retention, 
new sales and price increases.
Why this is important for LSEG
We are building a more efficient, scalable 
business and expanding underlying 
profitability over time, demonstrating the 
intrinsic operating leverage of the Group. 
As we grow our revenue while modernising 
our technology infrastructure and streamlining 
our cost base, improving margin allows us 
to reinvest for future growth. 
For 2025, we guided to organic EBITDA 
margin expansion of 50–100bps on an 
organic constant currency basis.
Why this is important for LSEG
AEPS is a key financial metric that is both 
central to our market valuation and a significant 
element of employees’ performance-related 
remuneration. Growth in our AEPS reflects our 
degree of success in driving strong top-line 
performance, as well as managing costs 
including tax and interest, and capital allocation.
Why this is important for LSEG
In accordance with our guidance, our capex 
intensity has moderated as the majority 
of the Refinitiv integration investment has 
concluded. Capex is now focused on 
pursuing a wide range of growth initiatives. 
While we expect capex intensity to reduce 
further, any declines from here are likely to 
be incremental, as we intend to maintain the 
ratio at a high single-digit level to support 
continued growth and innovation.
Performance
We delivered organic income growth of 7.1% 
in 2025, successfully meeting our guidance. 
As expected, growth moderated from the 
prior year, reflecting a normalisation in both 
Tradeweb and FTSE Russell following their 
exceptionally strong performances in 2024. 
Data & Analytics continued to accelerate, 
supported by the completion of Eikon-to-
Workspace migration, broader cloud 
distribution and the launch of our first 
jointly-developed solutions with Microsoft. 
Risk Intelligence delivered solid underlying 
growth underpinned by sustained client 
demand and ongoing product innovation. 
In Markets, we continued to expand into new 
markets and asset classes and captured the 
benefit of elevated volumes during the year. 
For 2026, our guidance for organic income 
growth is 6.5-7.5%.
Performance
We achieved ASV growth of 5.9% as of 
December 2025, reflecting a resilient 
performance and delivery on our commitment 
to reacceleration into year end. Modest 
deceleration versus the prior year partly 
reflected normalisation of growth in FTSE 
Russell and Risk Intelligence, and the impact 
of the UBS/Credit Suisse merger, which led 
to contract optimisation and reduced their 
contribution to Data & Analytics ASV.
Usage-based revenue models are not 
captured within ASV and, as these models 
become increasingly adopted across 
our business, ASV may become a less 
comprehensive indicator of overall revenue 
performance over time. As our commercial 
model evolves, we expect to transition to 
a revised set of commercial KPIs in 2026 
that provide a better forward-looking view 
of the business momentum.
Performance
Our 2025 adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 
50.3%, up 150bps from last year. Excluding 
a 60bps FX headwind, margin increased by 
210bps on a constant currency basis. Of the 
210bps expansion, 100bps was achieved 
through the Post Trade Solutions transaction, 
and 110bps was delivered organically. 
This result exceeded all guidance provided 
throughout the year – 50–100bps announced 
in February 2025, increased to 75–100bps 
in July 2025, and subsequently raised 
to 100bps in October 2025. 
We remain confident in delivering on our 
guidance to increase adjusted EBITDA 
margin by c.250bps
3 across the three years 
to 2026, excluding the impact of M&A. 
In 2026, we are targeting a further +80-
100bps increase in adjusted EBITDA margin, 
supported by continuous efficiency 
improvements and operating leverage.
Performance
Adjusted earnings per share (AEPS) from 
continuing operations was 420.6 pence. 
The 15.7% increase in AEPS year-on-year was 
driven by a strong improvement in underlying 
profitability and the changes in the SwapClear 
revenue share agreement, partly offset by 
higher depreciation – reflecting our continued 
investment in technology and product – and 
higher tax expense and non-controlling 
interest as a result of Tradeweb’s continued 
growth. Share buybacks reduced the average 
share count in 2025, which acted as a tailwind 
for AEPS.
Performance
Capex intensity in 2025 was 10.2%, in line 
with our full-year 2025 guidance of around 
10% and 110bps lower than in 2024, due to 
lower costs related to the Refinitiv integration 
and an improved investment control process. 
Cash capex in the year of £919 million 
reflected ongoing investment in key growth 
programmes. We have accelerated product 
innovation in our Workspace platform, 
investing in new, powerful capabilities 
in partnership with Microsoft, expanded 
and deepened our best-in-class data and 
analytics offering, and enhanced content 
and distribution capabilities of this data. 
We have also invested in platforms for 
future growth and launched new products 
in our Markets, FTSE Russell and Risk 
Intelligence businesses. 
In 2026, we are guiding to further capex 
intensity improvement to c. 9.5%.
Organic income growth1 ASV growth Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted earnings per share Capex intensity
+7.1% +5.9% 50.3% 420.6p 10.2%
2024: +7.7% 2024: +6.3% 2024: 48.8% 2024: 363.5p 2024: 11.3%
2025
2024
2023  6.7%
 5.9%
 6.3%
2025
2024
2023  47.2%
 50.3%
 48.8%
2025
2024
2023  323.9p
 420.6p
 363.5p
2025
2024
2023  12.9%
 10.2%
 11.3%
Link to strategic objectives
Income growth is key in delivering our 
adjusted operating profit (AOP) targets, which 
carry a 60% weighting in determining annual 
performance-related pay.
Link to strategic objectives
ASV growth can be an indicator of future 
income growth. Delivery against Future 
Growth KPIs carries a 15% weighting in 
determining annual performance-related pay.
Link to strategic objectives
EBITDA margin performance is a key factor 
in determining Group AOP, while also aligning 
with our Efficiency objective.
Link to strategic objectives
Earnings per share growth is a reflection of 
profitability, linked to Group AOP and aligning 
with our Efficiency objective.
Link to strategic objectives
Falling capex intensity is a product of 
both accelerating growth and disciplined 
investment, in line with our Efficiency objective.
Key performance indicators (KPIs) continued
17
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
2025 non-financial KPIs
We aim to be a strategic 
enabler and steward of 
sustainable economic growth, 
while cultivating an inclusive, 
high-performance culture 
and managing our impact 
on the environment.
These five core non-financial 
KPIs measure our progress, 
but also help us highlight the 
areas where we can improve.
These KPIs align with our Group Strategic 
Objectives (GSOs). Further detail on the GSO 
performance assessment can be found in our 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 103.
For more detail on LSEG’s sustainability approach, 
including Equity, Diversity and Inclusion goals, refer 
to the Sustainability section of this report on pages 
37 to 46.
Key performance indicators (KPIs) continued
1 Reduction of Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based) and selected 
Scope 3 (business travel, colleague commuting and FERA) 
emissions vs a 2019 baseline. This metric applies to 
emissions in scope of our science-based targets.
Employee engagement Gender diversity in leadership Ethnic diversity in leadership Sustainable issuers Greenhouse gas emissions
Definition
Employee engagement reflects employee 
responses to questions on overall satisfaction 
and likelihood to recommend LSEG as 
a place to work. 
Definition
The proportion of female representation 
in senior leadership roles, which includes 
LSEG’s Executive Committee and 
Group Leaders.
Definition
The proportion of ethnically diverse 
representation in senior leadership roles, 
which includes LSEG’s Executive Committee 
and Group Leaders.
Definition
The total number of issuers across the Green 
Economy Mark, the Sustainable Bond Market 
and the Voluntary Carbon Market.
Definition
The percentage change in the greenhouse 
gas emissions arising from our business 
operations relative to a 2019 baseline. 
These emissions include Scope 1, Scope 2 
(market-based) and Scope 3 (business travel, 
colleague commuting and fuel- and energy- 
related activities (FERA)).
Why this is important for LSEG
We recognise the importance of an 
engaged workplace and an inclusive 
high-performance culture, where opinions 
can be openly shared, contributions 
recognised, and individual and team 
achievements celebrated.
Why this is important for LSEG
We aim to build a global and diverse 
leadership team through merit-based 
processes, that help to attract, retain and 
promote a global, diverse pipeline of talent, 
in compliance with relevant laws.
Why this is important for LSEG
We aim to build a global and diverse 
leadership team through merit-based 
processes, that help to attract, retain 
and promote a global, diverse pipeline 
of talent, in compliance with relevant laws.
Why this is important for LSEG
Through our sustainable finance products, 
we support customers who want to invest 
in the green economy or raise capital to meet 
their sustainability objectives. One measure 
of our progress in this respect is the overall 
level of issuer engagement in sustainable 
finance across the London Stock Exchange, 
with the goal of growing the number of issuers 
over time.
Why this is important for LSEG
As a global organisation it is important to 
manage risks and opportunities arising from 
a changing climate. One way to mitigate risk 
is to reduce carbon emissions associated 
with our business operations.
Performance
Our overall engagement score remains 
stable at 74, consistent with last year. 
Over 20,000 colleagues (78%) shared 
feedback via LSEG Engage, a survey that 
offers colleagues the opportunity to provide 
feedback and improvement points on a range 
of topics. The survey revealed that most 
colleagues feel empowered and receive the 
support and feedback they need from their 
people leaders. Areas for improvement 
included better communicating LSEG’s 
strategy internally and a need for continuing 
focus on customer experience and process 
simplification. For more information, refer 
to the Sustainability section of this report 
on page 44.
Performance
At the end of 2025, the number of women 
in senior leadership stood at 36% (down 
from 41% in 2024). We remain committed to 
merit-based, inclusive hiring and progression 
at senior leadership level, tracking progress 
via tailored business unit action plans. 
For more information on gender diversity 
at LSEG, refer to page 45.
Performance
At the end of 2025, ethnic minority 
representation in senior leadership roles 
stood at 15% (down from 16% in 2024). 
We remain committed to merit-based, 
inclusive hiring and progression at senior 
leadership level, tracking progress via 
tailored business unit action plans. 
For more information on ethnic diversity 
at LSEG, refer to page 45.
Performance
At the end of the year, we had 243 total 
issuers across our Sustainable Bond Market 
and Voluntary Carbon Market or that display 
the Green Economy Mark. Together, the 
Green Economy Mark cohort raised a 
combined £635 million in 2025. This year 
also marked a significant milestone for the 
Sustainable Bond Market, which celebrated 
its 10th anniversary. Since its inception, the 
Sustainable Bond Market has helped raise 
$464 billion through 967 issuances issued 
by over 190 entities.
Performance
By the end of 2025, these greenhouse gas 
emissions had reduced 66% relative to the 
2019 baseline year. These reductions were 
largely driven by operational efficiencies, 
green energy instruments, reduced business 
travel and improved data quality.
Employee engagement score Gender diversity in leadership Ethnic diversity in leadership Sustainable issuers
Reduction of Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-
based) and selected Scope 3 (business 
travel, colleague commuting and FERA)
1
74 36% 15% 243 -66%
2024: 74 2024: 41% 2024: 16% 2024: 235 2024: -54% 
2025
2024
2023  75
 74
 74
2025
2024
2023  42%
 36%
 41%
2025
2024
2023  14%
 15%
 16%
2025
2024
2023  236
 243
 235
2025
2024
2023 -34% 
-66% 
-54% 
Link to strategic objectives
Employee engagement aligns with our 
Culture objective: to leverage embedded 
values to drive an inclusive, high-
performance culture.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Culture objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Culture objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Sustainability objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Sustainability objective.
18
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Employee engagement Gender diversity in leadership Ethnic diversity in leadership Sustainable issuers Greenhouse gas emissions
Definition
Employee engagement reflects employee 
responses to questions on overall satisfaction 
and likelihood to recommend LSEG as 
a place to work. 
Definition
The proportion of female representation 
in senior leadership roles, which includes 
LSEG’s Executive Committee and 
Group Leaders.
Definition
The proportion of ethnically diverse 
representation in senior leadership roles, 
which includes LSEG’s Executive Committee 
and Group Leaders.
Definition
The total number of issuers across the Green 
Economy Mark, the Sustainable Bond Market 
and the Voluntary Carbon Market.
Definition
The percentage change in the greenhouse 
gas emissions arising from our business 
operations relative to a 2019 baseline. 
These emissions include Scope 1, Scope 2 
(market-based) and Scope 3 (business travel, 
colleague commuting and fuel- and energy- 
related activities (FERA)).
Why this is important for LSEG
We recognise the importance of an 
engaged workplace and an inclusive 
high-performance culture, where opinions 
can be openly shared, contributions 
recognised, and individual and team 
achievements celebrated.
Why this is important for LSEG
We aim to build a global and diverse 
leadership team through merit-based 
processes, that help to attract, retain and 
promote a global, diverse pipeline of talent, 
in compliance with relevant laws.
Why this is important for LSEG
We aim to build a global and diverse 
leadership team through merit-based 
processes, that help to attract, retain 
and promote a global, diverse pipeline 
of talent, in compliance with relevant laws.
Why this is important for LSEG
Through our sustainable finance products, 
we support customers who want to invest 
in the green economy or raise capital to meet 
their sustainability objectives. One measure 
of our progress in this respect is the overall 
level of issuer engagement in sustainable 
finance across the London Stock Exchange, 
with the goal of growing the number of issuers 
over time.
Why this is important for LSEG
As a global organisation it is important to 
manage risks and opportunities arising from 
a changing climate. One way to mitigate risk 
is to reduce carbon emissions associated 
with our business operations.
Performance
Our overall engagement score remains 
stable at 74, consistent with last year. 
Over 20,000 colleagues (78%) shared 
feedback via LSEG Engage, a survey that 
offers colleagues the opportunity to provide 
feedback and improvement points on a range 
of topics. The survey revealed that most 
colleagues feel empowered and receive the 
support and feedback they need from their 
people leaders. Areas for improvement 
included better communicating LSEG’s 
strategy internally and a need for continuing 
focus on customer experience and process 
simplification. For more information, refer 
to the Sustainability section of this report 
on page 44.
Performance
At the end of 2025, the number of women 
in senior leadership stood at 36% (down 
from 41% in 2024). We remain committed to 
merit-based, inclusive hiring and progression 
at senior leadership level, tracking progress 
via tailored business unit action plans. 
For more information on gender diversity 
at LSEG, refer to page 45.
Performance
At the end of 2025, ethnic minority 
representation in senior leadership roles 
stood at 15% (down from 16% in 2024). 
We remain committed to merit-based, 
inclusive hiring and progression at senior 
leadership level, tracking progress via 
tailored business unit action plans. 
For more information on ethnic diversity 
at LSEG, refer to page 45.
Performance
At the end of the year, we had 243 total 
issuers across our Sustainable Bond Market 
and Voluntary Carbon Market or that display 
the Green Economy Mark. Together, the 
Green Economy Mark cohort raised a 
combined £635 million in 2025. This year 
also marked a significant milestone for the 
Sustainable Bond Market, which celebrated 
its 10th anniversary. Since its inception, the 
Sustainable Bond Market has helped raise 
$464 billion through 967 issuances issued 
by over 190 entities.
Performance
By the end of 2025, these greenhouse gas 
emissions had reduced 66% relative to the 
2019 baseline year. These reductions were 
largely driven by operational efficiencies, 
green energy instruments, reduced business 
travel and improved data quality.
Employee engagement score Gender diversity in leadership Ethnic diversity in leadership Sustainable issuers
Reduction of Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-
based) and selected Scope 3 (business 
travel, colleague commuting and FERA)
1
74 36% 15% 243 -66%
2024: 74 2024: 41% 2024: 16% 2024: 235 2024: -54% 
2025
2024
2023  42%
 36%
 41%
2025
2024
2023  14%
 15%
 16%
2025
2024
2023  236
 243
 235
2025
2024
2023 -34% 
-66% 
-54% 
Link to strategic objectives
Employee engagement aligns with our 
Culture objective: to leverage embedded 
values to drive an inclusive, high-
performance culture.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Culture objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Culture objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Sustainability objective.
Link to strategic objectives
This KPI aligns with our Sustainability objective.
Key performance indicators (KPIs) continued
19
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Analytics
£231m 
6%
Revenue proﬁle1 Revenue split
Data 
& Feeds
£1,822m 
46%
Workﬂows
£1,925m
48%
Recurring
98%
Transactional
2%
Divisional review
Data & Analytics
Data & Analytics delivered 
another strong year in 2025, 
as sustained investment 
in product innovation and 
platform modernisation 
continued to accelerate 
growth across all 
three businesses. 
During the year, we 
completed the successful 
retirement of Eikon and 
migration of around 
350,000 users to 
Workspace, establishing 
a modern, modular 
environment that enables 
faster delivery of new 
functionality and deeper 
customer engagement. 
We also broadened cloud-
based distribution of our 
data and analytics, with 
customers increasingly 
consuming large-scale 
datasets, such as Tick 
History, via cloud channels. 
In parallel, we delivered the 
first wave of solutions under 
our strategic partnership 
with Microsoft.
Gianluca Biagini and Ron Lefferts
Co-Heads of Data & Analytics
In 2025, leadership of the Data & Analytics 
division transitioned to a new co-head 
structure, with Gianluca Biagini and Ron 
Lefferts appointed to jointly lead the business. 
Gianluca joined from S&P Global, bringing 
extensive experience in data, valuations 
and analytics, while Ron moved from his role 
leading LSEG’s global sales organisation. 
Both report to David Schwimmer and are 
members of the Executive Committee. 
Our Data & Analytics business helps 
customers unlock critical insights through our 
data feeds, analytics, workflow and AI solutions. 
The breadth, depth and reliability of our content 
empower users to make informed decisions, 
uncover opportunities and drive efficiency 
across their operations. We serve a global 
customer base spanning the world’s largest 
financial institutions, investment banks, traders, 
asset managers and corporates, across all 
major asset classes including FX, commodities, 
fixed income, equities and derivatives.
The division comprises three business areas, 
each addressing different customer needs:
Workflows
User-facing end-to-end workflows platform, 
banking, investment management and wealth 
communities, providing seamless access to 
trusted data, analytics and AI tools through 
an open, interoperable architecture.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Continued electronification and demand for 
integrated, end-to-end workflow solutions
 – Rapid adoption of AI and cloud-based 
collaboration tools 
 – Increasing demand for trusted data 
and insights 
Performance
+3.1% organic revenue growth, supported by 
continued Workspace upgrades and deeper 
customer engagement. Key milestones included 
the launch of Excel and PowerPoint add-ins 
and the introduction of the Workspace app for 
Microsoft Teams, improving productivity and 
collaboration. We also began rolling out Open 
Directory, a secure collaboration network 
embedded in the Microsoft Teams app, to 
selected FX and Commodities communities. 
Growth was partly offset by contract 
optimisation following the UBS-Credit Suisse 
merger, but underlying momentum 
remains strong.
Data & Feeds
Serving the full spectrum of business-critical 
data needs across asset classes, delivery 
speeds (latencies) and channels, including 
real-time data and news, text, reference and 
legal entity information, now enhanced with 
cloud-enabled distribution and AI-ready 
formats for seamless integration into 
customers’ ways of working. 
Structural market trends driving growth: 
 – Rising demand for trusted, auditable 
data across front, middle and back-office 
applications
 – Growing adoption of cloud-based delivery 
for easier access, scalability and integration, 
as customers seek to simplify data 
management and reduce cost
 – High growth in back-tested and algorithmic 
trading strategies, requiring significant data 
history and analysis of multiple data sets
Performance
+6.6% organic revenue growth, underpinned 
by strong demand for real-time data and 
continued expansion of cloud delivery. 
Customers increasingly accessed historical 
datasets such as Tick History via the cloud, 
while Pricing & Reference Services (PRS) 
extended its reach with broader fixed 
income coverage and enhanced distribution. 
Partnerships with AI-native platforms, including 
Databricks, Claude and Microsoft Copilot, 
supported early adoption of AI-driven use cases.
Analytics
Provides cross-asset models and analytics 
solutions for a wide range of customer needs, 
including risk management, regulatory and 
historical analysis. Key offerings include Yield 
Book fixed income, Lipper fund performance, 
private credit analytics and StarMine sentiment 
analysis, now enhanced with AI-powered tools 
and API-based delivery.
20
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Rapid adoption of AI-driven analytics 
leveraging trusted deterministic asset class 
specialist models
 – Cloud-native distribution and interoperability 
across platforms – from no analytics 
experience to developer environments
 – Increasing demand for higher-quality insight 
from data for use in building strategies 
and models
Performance
+7.7% organic revenue growth, driven by 
continued strength in Yield Book, LPC and 
Lipper, supported by adoption of the Analytics 
API and introduction of new proprietary LSEG 
models. We expanded distribution through 
partnerships with Databricks, Claude and 
Snowflake, enabling AI-driven use cases, 
and introduced Model-as-a-Service, allowing 
customers to deploy custom models at scale.
2025 highlights
Eikon migration to Workspace
In 2025, LSEG completed a major platform 
migration, retiring the Eikon desktop and 
transitioning c. 350,000 users to Workspace. 
This multi-year programme consolidated 
fragmented workflows into a modern, modular 
platform designed for speed, interoperability 
and innovation. The migration was executed 
smoothly, supported by extensive customer 
engagement and enhanced onboarding. 
Workspace now serves as the central hub for 
trading, banking and investment workflows. 
It provides access to trusted data, insights and 
news, AI-powered analytics and collaboration 
features, with full Microsoft 365 interoperability. 
Customer engagement has surged, with 
trading users increasing desktop application 
usage by 40% year-on-year. This milestone 
not only simplifies user experience but also 
accelerates our ability to deliver continuous 
enhancements, positioning Workspace as the 
future central hub for LSEG’s broader offering.
Delivering innovation through 
the Microsoft Partnership
2025 marked a turning point in our strategic 
collaboration with Microsoft, as we moved 
from product ideation to delivery. We launched 
Workspace integrations with Microsoft 365, 
including Excel and PowerPoint add-ins and 
the Workspace app for Teams, enabling 
seamless interoperability between financial 
workflows and enterprise productivity tools. 
These integrations have significantly improved 
user productivity, allowing customers to 
combine LSEG’s trusted data with familiar 
Microsoft environments. 
We also introduced Open Directory, a secure 
collaboration network built on Microsoft 
Teams, enabling compliant, cross-organisation 
communication – and we opened new channels 
by enabling access through our Analytics 
API into the Microsoft PowerPlatform and 
Divisional review continued
Data & Analytics continued
VisualStudio Code environment. We also 
integrated LSEG’s trusted data into Microsoft 
Copilot Studio, giving customers the ability 
to create custom AI agents and agentic 
workflows that streamline decision-making 
and automate tasks. In trading, we re-
platformed Autex Trade Routing on Azure, 
creating a first-of-its-kind cloud solution for 
1,600 investment firms and brokers, delivering 
greater speed, resilience and scalability. 
Alongside these launches, we advanced our 
Data-as-a-Service  platform, adding highly 
used datasets such as Company Fundamentals, 
covering over 100,000 companies. 
These innovations represent just the first wave 
of delivery under our partnership, with more 
to come in 2026.
LSEG Everywhere
Delivering trusted data wherever customers 
work is the goal of our LSEG Everywhere 
strategy. As AI adoption accelerates and 
workflows become increasingly distributed, 
customers need seamless access to 
authoritative content across various 
environments. This is enabled by the Model 
Context Protocol (MCP), an open standard 
that lets AI agents access LSEG’s high-quality, 
structured data safely and consistently across 
platforms, embedding our content directly 
into customer workflows. 
Building on this, we launched a series of 
partnerships that extend our reach beyond 
traditional channels. Databricks enables 
customers to build and deploy AI agents 
powered by LSEG’s auditable data, while 
Rogo integrates our content into intelligent 
applications for investment banking 
workflows. Through Snowflake, customers 
can embed our datasets into Cortex AI tools, 
and integration with Microsoft Copilot Studio 
brings our trusted data into productivity 
and agentic AI solutions. Most recently, our 
collaboration with Anthropic makes LSEG’s 
licensed AI-ready content available to Claude 
for Financial Services, and our work with 
OpenAI extends this access to ChatGPT 
users, enabling secure, enterprise-grade 
AI workflows.
Alongside these partnerships, we expanded 
multi-cloud distribution via AWS, Azure and 
Google, offering flexibility and choice to our 
customers. Together, these initiatives position 
LSEG as a key enabler of AI-driven workflows, 
ensuring our data and analytics are accessible 
across every major consumption layer, from 
Workspace to APIs and third-party platforms.
Alongside these milestones, 
our new LSEG Everywhere 
strategy extended access 
to trusted data across new 
AI-native environments, 
positioning us as a key 
enabler of AI-driven 
workflows and setting 
the stage for continued 
momentum into 2026.
1 Data & Analytics recurring vs transactional revenue 
profile includes recoveries.
Performance commentary growth rates are provided 
on an organic constant currency basis.
21
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Revenue proﬁle Revenue split
Asset-
based
fees
£324m 
34%
Subscriptions
£630m
66%
Recurring
100%
FTSE Russell continued 
to advance its position 
as a leading global index 
and benchmark provider, 
supported by favourable 
structural tailwinds and 
continued momentum 
across our diversified index 
and benchmarking franchise. 
Growth was underpinned by 
ongoing expansion of passive 
investing, steady demand 
for high-quality benchmark 
solutions and rising interest 
in private markets.
We further strengthened 
our position through 
targeted innovation and 
strategic partnerships, 
delivering new capabilities 
across private assets, 
sustainability and equity 
index operations, thus 
supporting our customers 
in a rapidly evolving 
investment landscape.
Fiona Bassett
Head of FTSE Russell
Divisional review
FTSE Russell
FTSE Russell provides a comprehensive 
suite of index and benchmark solutions 
designed to help investors measure 
performance with precision and maintain 
consistency across investment strategies 
and asset allocation decisions.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Expansion of passive investment strategies 
 – Rising demand for customised and thematic 
index solutions 
 – Growing interest in benchmarks for 
private markets
Performance
+7.3% organic revenue growth, reflecting 
strong subscription and asset-based revenue 
performance. Subscription growth was driven 
by sustained demand for flagship equity indices 
and increasing adoption of custom solutions, 
while asset-based revenues benefited from 
robust ETF inflows and favourable market 
conditions, with AUM reaching record highs. 
Performance remained resilient despite 
a quieter year for mandate renewals, which 
limited price realisation. We drove additional 
growth through innovation in private markets 
and sustainability-linked benchmarks.
2025 highlights
Partnering with StepStone to advance 
private markets benchmarking
In 2025, FTSE Russell entered into a strategic 
partnership with StepStone to strengthen 
our capabilities in the fast-growing private 
markets segment. The collaboration brings 
together FTSE Russell’s index engineering 
and governance expertise with StepStone’s 
proprietary, institutional-grade private 
markets dataset to address the industry’s 
long-standing need for more timely and 
transparent performance measures. 
The launch of StepStone Global Private 
Market Indices marked a major milestone, 
delivering the industry’s first daily private 
market benchmarks and enabling investors 
to monitor trends with greater agility compared 
to traditional quarterly measures. These indices 
also establish a foundation for future index-
tracking investment products and represent 
the first phase of a broader roadmap, with 
further indices and advanced analytical tools 
planned for 2026. 
Expanding our global ESG benchmarking 
with the FTSE Blossom World Index Series
We strengthened our sustainable investment 
offering with the launch of the FTSE Blossom 
World Index Series, developed in response 
to growing client demand for transparent 
and globally consistent ESG benchmarks. 
Building on the strong adoption of the FTSE 
Blossom Japan Index, the new indices extend 
coverage to the US, Europe and APAC, 
using FTSE Russell’s proprietary ESG Data 
Model to identify companies demonstrating 
robust ESG practices. With industry-neutral 
construction and limited exclusions, the series 
provides a broad market exposure while 
enabling integration of ESG considerations 
into equity strategies. 
Modernising the Russell US Indexes 
with a semi-annual reconstitution
We took an important step in 2025 
to modernise our flagship US equity 
benchmarks, announcing the transition 
of the Russell US Indexes to a semi-annual 
reconstitution schedule from 2026. 
The change reflects our commitment 
to maintaining timely and representative 
measures of the US equity market. Following 
extensive market consultation and analysis, 
we began implementing key operational 
enhancements in 2025, including improved 
free-float methodology, upgraded index 
operations, and new client tools such as the 
Russell Monitor List and Enhanced Indicative 
Review. A parallel test run completed in 
November 2025 validated readiness ahead 
of the first reconstitution, supporting a smooth 
transition and continued benchmark integrity.
Performance commentary growth rates are provided 
on an organic constant currency basis.
22
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Revenue proﬁle Revenue split
Risk
intelligence
£579m
100%
Recurring
78%
Transactional
22%
Divisional review
Risk Intelligence
2025 was a year of strong 
progress for Risk Intelligence, 
as we continued to deliver 
trusted compliance and 
fraud prevention solutions 
in an environment of rising 
regulatory complexity and 
digital risk. 
Demand for World-Check 
remained strong, and we 
enhanced our offering 
with low-latency, 
cloud-native solutions.
Our Digital Identity and 
Fraud portfolio achieved 
double-digit growth, 
driven by the global increase 
in digital transactions and 
cross-border payments. 
Taken together, we helped 
customers meet regulatory 
obligations and manage 
risk with confidence, 
underscoring our role 
as their trusted partner.
David Wilson
Head of Risk Intelligence
Within Risk Intelligence, our solutions enable 
regulated institutions and corporates to meet 
Know Your Customer (KYC) and Know Your 
Third Party (KY3P) obligations, perform due 
diligence, and mitigate identity and payment 
fraud risks.
Structural market trends driving growth: 
 – Heightened focus on reputational risk
 – Accelerating digitalisation and adoption 
of digital currencies
 – Proliferation of online fraud
 – Evolving regulatory requirements
Performance
+11.7% organic revenue growth, driven by 
sustained demand for our World-Check 
screening solutions and strong uptake of 
digital identity and fraud services, with over 
500 million transactions verified this year. 
Growth was supported by innovation, including 
the launch of World-Check On Demand and 
World-Check Verify, alongside the expansion 
of Global Account Verification (GAV) to new 
geographies. Performance was partially 
offset by continued weakness in our due 
diligence business.
2025 highlights
Transforming screening with 
real-time intelligence
Risk Intelligence made important progress 
this year in delivering real-time, integrated 
compliance solutions with two major 
innovations expanding the World-Check 
portfolio. World-Check On Demand 
introduced a new standard for how risk 
intelligence is created and delivered, providing 
continuously updated sanctions, politically 
exposed persons (PEPs), adverse media 
and enforcement data through a flexible API. 
By giving institutions instant access to trusted, 
precise intelligence, the solution helps 
accelerate onboarding, reduce false positives 
and address operational bottlenecks, often 
highlighted by customers in our global 
risk studies.
We also introduced World-Check Verify, 
a next-generation, cloud-native screening 
API developed in partnership with AWS. 
The solution performs real-time, automated 
checks against World-Check risk data at the 
exact moment a payment or onboarding event 
occurs, verifying names and entities with low 
latency and high accuracy. Purpose-built 
for modern, digital payment environments, 
it embeds secure screening directly into 
transaction and onboarding workflows, 
ensuring compliance runs seamlessly in 
the background without slowing down the 
customer experience.
Together, these innovations demonstrate 
LSEG’s deep expertise in combining trusted, 
AI-enabled data with real-time architecture to 
deliver market-leading compliance solutions.
Strengthening payment security with 
Global Account Verification (GAV)
In 2025, we expanded our trusted payments 
capabilities with the launch of Global Account 
Verification (GAV) across APAC and EMEA, 
following its initial roll-out in the US. GAV 
facilitates real-time validation of bank accounts 
and ownership across 43 countries, helping 
organisations confirm their payee details match 
before a transfer is executed. Delivered via 
API, GAV integrates directly into client systems, 
enabling greater efficiency and strengthening 
organisations’ ability to shield their customers 
from increasingly sophisticated fraud attempts.
Performance commentary growth rates are provided 
on an organic constant currency basis.
23
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
£272m (8%)
£257m (7%)
£413m (12%)
£1,538m
(44%)
Recurring
33%
Revenue proﬁle Revenue split
Net Treasury
Income
7%
Transactional
59%
£117m (3%)
£641m (18%)
£229m (7%)
■ Equities ■ Fixed Income, Derivatives & Other
■ FX ■ OTC Derivatives ■ Securities & Reporting
■ Non-Cash Collateral ■ Net Treasury Income
Divisional review
Markets
We delivered another 
strong performance this 
year in Markets, with positive 
growth and new product 
launches across all business 
lines. We have continued 
to support customers with 
new trading functionality 
and tools, and have taken 
substantial steps in 
expanding the funding 
continuum with the launch 
of the Private Securities 
Market and our Digital 
Markets Infrastructure 
platform.
Within our post trade 
businesses, we have 
continued to innovate, 
expanding into new 
markets and asset classes. 
This, together with the 
growth in our CDSClear 
and ForexClear businesses 
as well as the strengthening 
of our partnership with 
major customers in Post 
Trade Solutions and 
SwapClear, gives us an 
excellent platform for 
further long-term growth. 
Daniel Maguire
Head of LSEG Markets 
and CEO, LCH Group
We help customers across the trade lifecycle 
optimise their financial resource consumption 
and risk, manage their regulatory reporting 
obligations, and reduce operational complexity 
and cost. We provide access to diverse 
liquidity pools across multiple asset classes 
– equities, fixed income, exchange-traded 
funds and products, and foreign exchange – 
fostering growth for customers, communities 
and economies worldwide. We are home to 
several capital formation and execution 
venues: the London Stock Exchange, AIM, 
Turquoise, FXall, FX Matching and Tradeweb. 
LSEG Markets combines these flagship trading 
services with our global, highly important, 
multi-asset class clearing infrastructure. 
The division is split across the seven 
sub-businesses described below:
Equities
Capital raising and trading on the 
London Stock Exchange, including equity 
and debt capital markets. A trusted long-term 
partner to the market and the number one 
exchange, by capital raised, in Europe. 
In addition, Turquoise, the Group’s 
multilateral trading facility (MTF), provides 
access to broader multi-asset trading across 
global markets.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Expanding economies
 – Growing demand for growth capital
 – Pipeline of private equity-backed businesses 
seeking next stage of investment
Performance
+5.1% organic revenue growth driven by 
growth in equity transaction volumes and data 
revenues. We have continued to expand the 
funding continuum, launching a new Private 
Securities Market and conducting the first 
private funds transaction on our Digital Markets 
Infrastructure (DMI).
Fixed Income, Derivatives & Other
Electronic marketplaces for rates, credit, 
equities and money markets products, built 
and operated through Tradeweb.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Electronification of fixed income markets
 – Expanding global markets
Performance: 
+13.7% organic revenue growth. Average 
daily volume across all asset classes was 
$2.6 trillion, a 17% increase on 2024, 
representing strong market activity across 
Tradeweb’s global asset classes, enhanced 
by its innovative trading protocols. 
FX
A market leader in dealer-to-client and 
dealer-to-dealer FX trading, providing 
electronic trading, workflow and data to the 
institutional foreign exchange community 
through FXall and FX Matching.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Access to liquidity
 – Cross-border trading and business 
globalisation
Performance: 
+7.5% organic revenue growth with both 
platforms, FXall, our dealer-to-client platform, 
and FX Matching, our dealer-to-dealer 
platform, seeing growth in the year from 
product enhancements, including integrating 
FXall into LSEG Workspace, new strategic 
customers and greater volumes driven by 
higher volatility in the market.
OTC Derivatives
Clearing and capital optimisation solutions for 
OTC derivatives, including interest rate swaps, 
foreign exchange and credit default swaps. 
The largest of these services is SwapClear, 
which is responsible for over 90% of the 
interest rate swap notional cleared globally.
24
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Divisional review continued
Markets continued
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Increasing regulation
 – Heightened market volatility
 – Rising demand for risk management 
and capital optimisation solutions
Performance 
+11.6% organic revenue growth driven by 
innovation, including new forward clearing 
capabilities in ForexClear, the international 
expansion of CDSClear, and greater clearing 
activity as a result of the higher volatility 
stemming from the macroeconomic 
environment. 
Securities & Reporting
Securities clearing, capital optimisation 
and regulatory reporting solutions.
Structural market trends driving growth:
 – Increasing regulation
 – Rising demand for risk management 
and capital optimisation solutions
 – Growing debt issuance
Performance 
-3.0% organic revenue growth with RepoClear 
continuing to perform well, delivering strong 
volume growth in fixed income clearing. 
This was offset by the impact of the termination 
of the Euronext clearing agreement, with the 
headwind ending in the third quarter of 2025.
Non-Cash Collateral
Fees earned from handling non-cash 
collateral balances.
Performance 
+5.2% organic revenue growth as clearing 
members optimised their collateral positions 
from cash to non-cash.
Net Treasury Income (NTI)
Income earned on cash deposited with LCH 
as margin and default funds as part of the risk 
management process.
Performance 
-2.6% organic revenue growth, reflecting lower 
overall collateral balances, down by 1.5%, as 
a result of the loss of collateral balances linked 
to the Euronext migration as well as collateral 
optimisation by customers. 
2025 highlights
Strengthening our partnership and 
strategic alignment with key customers 
in post trade
We announced a significant transaction in 
our post trade business, with 11 leading global 
banks acquiring a 20% stake in Post Trade 
Solutions, replicating the original, highly 
successful LCH model. By bringing major 
industry participants closer to the business 
and giving them a role in shaping its future, 
we are creating aligned incentives for 
adoption and long-term growth. This initiative 
builds on the strong momentum of Post Trade 
Solutions, supported by double-digit volume 
growth across the solutions suite and the 
ongoing expansion of our global network. 
In parallel, we enhanced our revenue-sharing 
arrangements within SwapClear, extending 
the agreement with partner banks by 
10 years and increasing our share of the 
economics. These changes strengthen and 
deepen our strategic alignment with major 
customers and give us a great platform 
for further, long-term growth and product 
adoption, while delivering attractive margin 
and earnings enhancement. 
Building next-generation infrastructure 
for digital markets
We launched our Digital Markets 
Infrastructure (DMI) platform in September, 
marking a major step in our ambition to be 
the first global exchange group helping 
customers across the full funding continuum. 
Developed in collaboration with Microsoft 
and powered by Azure, DMI uses blockchain 
technology to deliver efficiencies across 
the full asset lifecycle, across multiple asset 
classes. We have conducted the first private 
funds transaction on this infrastructure, 
supporting private funds to raise capital 
using distributed ledger technology, and 
we continue to collaborate with Microsoft 
to develop and scale the platform, including 
the addition of further asset classes.
Expanding access to capital for private 
businesses with Private Securities Market
This year marked an important step forward 
in broadening access to the UK’s capital 
markets with the launch of the London Stock 
Exchange’s Private Securities Market. As the 
first operator to receive a PISCES Approval 
Notice from the FCA, we are establishing 
a regulated venue where private companies 
can access intermittent liquidity auctions for 
the first time, supported by the same resilient 
infrastructure that underpins our public 
markets. The market is designed around 
the needs of private companies, offering 
flexibility over auction timing, as well as 
investor participation and disclosures 
through our dedicated portal. By creating 
a transparent and efficient mechanism for 
founders, employees and early investors to 
access liquidity, and by enabling institutions 
to engage with high-growth p rivate 
businesses, this initiative strengthens 
the UK’s funding continuum and expands 
the options available to the next generation 
of innovative companies.
Market volatility driven by 
macroeconomic events is an 
important underlying driver 
of business performance 
and we have been successful 
in capturing the upside of 
higher trading and clearing 
volumes this year. 
Performance commentary growth rates are provided 
on an organic constant currency basis.
25
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Chief Financial  
Officer’s review
I am very satisfied 
with the strong progress 
the business is making, 
supported by continued 
improvement in our 
investment and capital 
allocation processes, 
as well as the delivery 
of significant 
operating leverage.
Michel-Alain Proch
Chief Financial Officer
2025 performance
LSEG continued its consistent and strong 
performance in 2025. Reported growth in total 
income excluding recoveries was 5.8%, and 
7.1% on an organic, constant currency basis. 
Our subscription businesses (Data & Analytics, 
FTSE Russell and Risk Intelligence) were 
up 6.0%. Reported EBITDA grew by 10.6% 
to £4,365 million. On a constant currency 
basis, we delivered a 210bps EBITDA margin 
improvement, or 110bps excluding the benefit 
of the Post Trade Solutions transaction 
described below, and brought our capex 
intensity down from 11.3% to 10.2%, as guided. 
Free cash flow of £2.4 billion allowed us to 
grow the dividend by 15.4%, execute £2.1 billion 
of share buybacks and invest £717 million in 
the Post Trade transaction while still keeping 
leverage below the middle of our target range.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 15.7% to 
420.6 pence, driven by robust income growth 
and continued improvement in underlying 
profitability. Basic earnings per share increased 
85.1% to 238.4 pence, benefitting from reduced 
amortisation and impairment charges. Share 
buybacks completed over the last 12 months 
provided an additional boost to both adjusted 
and reported EPS. More detail on our financial 
performance can be found in our financial 
review from page 28.
Key features of our financial delivery
In last year’s annual report we wrote about the 
opportunities to create a more profitable LSEG, 
with more of our strong revenue growth being 
translated into earnings and cash flow over 
time. We have improved operating leverage 
significantly, and we now have in place a much 
more rigorous and data-driven process for 
allocating investment. In addition, the broader 
Finance function is adding increasing value 
in areas such as Treasury and Corporate 
Development, as well as Procurement. 
I will touch on each of these below.
Operating leverage: last year we put in place 
reinforced cost control through process and 
discipline, to drive margin improvement mainly 
through two overarching principles.
The first is the labour cost equation – this 
is the cost of our own staff plus our external 
contractors. The opportunity here is to have 
the total of these two costs decreasing as 
a percentage of income over time. We are 
successfully driving this through a combination 
of two levers. First, we are insourcing within 
Engineering, a programme led by Irfan Hussain, 
our CIO. This enhances our engineering 
expertise and builds a strong product culture, 
while also driving efficiencies as typically, our 
own employees are more productive. In 2025, 
we reduced our total engineering headcount 
from 15,101 to 14,244 and increased the 
insourced mix to 60% from 49%. We have 
more to go from here, with a final target of 
80% insourced. Second, we are optimising 
the mix of our resources between our 
high-cost locations and our global delivery 
and excellence centres, while delayering 
across the organisation.
The second principle is the opportunity to 
operate more efficiently and effectively across 
our strategic programmes to ensure that we 
are running fewer, bigger programmes, with 
impact on growth and opex, and clearer 
prioritisation of capex over time. The Group 
Investment Committee, which we introduced 
last year and which is co-chaired by David 
Schwimmer and me, meets on a fortnightly 
basis to review all the major projects under 
way across the Group, which amounted to 
£919 million of investment spend in 2025.
New enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
platform: during 2025, we successfully 
commenced the implementation of our new 
Oracle Cloud ERP, consolidating our legacy 
ERP and performance management systems 
across the Group. This will significantly 
streamline the financial planning and reporting 
process, driving improved and faster insights. 
We expect to complete this programme 
in 2027.
Refinancing and liability management: we 
continued to take an active role in debt capital 
markets, effectively managing finance costs 
while diversifying our sources of funding. 
Earlier in the year, we completed another bond 
tender offer, buying back $250 million of our 
2031 $1.25 billion bond, which generated a 
positive net present value and reduced our 
net finance expense. To further diversify the 
Group’s debt investor base, LSEG issued its 
maiden Swiss franc bond and accessed the 
Japanese yen private placement market for 
the first time. Combined with additional bond 
issuances in sterling and euro, the Group 
raised a total of £1,689 million of new long-term 
debt in 2025.
Post Trade Solutions investment and 
SwapClear profit share arrangements: this 
transaction, described in more detail below, 
is the culmination of several years of planning, 
partnership and thoughtful financial structuring, 
coordinated by our Group Corporate 
Development team. The outcome is beneficial 
to all parties: our partner banks have aligned 
their interests with us in the success and 
direction of Post Trade Solutions, which will 
enhance its growth and market opportunity; 
LSEG will benefit from a greater share of 
SwapClear revenue surplus over the next 
This section includes references to adjusted 
performance measures that better reflect 
the underlying performance of our business 
(e.g., equity free cash flow). For more information 
on these measures – refer to page 194.
26
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued
10 years, with clear financial benefits for our 
shareholders; and the extension of these 
financial arrangements for a further 10 years, 
until 2045, ensures continued strategic 
alignment with our partner banks.
2026 guidance
We are confident of further growth and 
improvement in our EBITDA margin in 2026, 
leading to strong growth in equity free cash 
flow. Financial guidance for 2026 is as follows:
 – Organic constant currency growth in total 
income excluding recoveries of 6.5-7.5% 
including an acceleration in our subscription 
divisions’ organic growth
 – An improvement in constant currency 
EBITDA margin of +80-100 bps
 – Capex intensity of c. 9.5% of total income 
excluding recoveries
 – Equity free cash flow of at least £2.7 billion, 
based on foreign exchange rates of 
£1 = $1.32 and €1.17
 – Underlying effective tax rate of 24-25%
Capital allocation
Our goal is to invest for growth using the cash 
we generate, building a platform for long-term 
value creation while rewarding investors today 
through a progressive dividend, growing 
broadly in line with AEPS. We allocate capital 
within appropriate leverage bounds for our 
earnings profile, with a target leverage range 
of 1.5–2.5x operating net debt to adjusted 
EBITDA before foreign exchange gains 
and losses.
Our intention is to maintain business-as-usual 
leverage around the middle of this range. 
Leverage at the end of December 2025 
was 1.8x (December 2024: 1.7x).
LSEG generated £2.4 billion of equity free 
cash flow after having invested £919 million 
in capex. Total capex intensity (as a percentage 
of total income excluding recoveries) was 
10.2%, 110 bps lower than 2024 and in line 
with our guidance.
Key growth programmes ongoing during 
2025 included continued enhancements 
to Workspace, product development with 
Microsoft across our Data & Analytics portfolio, 
investment in AI-ready data including the 
development of Model Context Protocol 
(MCP) servers, ongoing Post Trade Solutions 
innovation and continued investment in 
Tradeweb. Meanwhile integration costs 
from acquisitions fell, as planned.
During the year, we allocated capital 
as follows:
Acquisitions and disposals – £717 million
In October, we announced that 11 leading 
global banks had agreed to invest in 
Post Trade Solutions, taking a 20% stake 
for cash consideration of £170 million. These 
banks are major customers of LSEG’s clearing 
services and Post Trade Solutions business. 
This initiative continues the strong history of 
strategic partnership with LSEG and market 
participants, replicating the original LCH 
model that continues to prove so successful 
for LCH and its customers.
At the same time, we acquired an increased 
proportion of the revenue surplus from 
the SwapClear business, while extending 
the revenue surplus sharing arrangements 
with the majority of founding members by 
a further 10 years to 2045. We will pay a 
total cash consideration of £1.2 billion for this 
change in terms, payable in two instalments, 
in 2025 (£0.9 billion) and 2026 (£0.25 billion). 
The transaction overall is very attractive 
both strategically and financially, immediately 
improving Group EBITDA margin by 100bps, 
and being 2-3% enhancin g to Adjusted EPS 
in 2025.
Dividend – £718 million
The total cash outflow for the year was 
£718 million, comprising the 2024 final 
dividend and the 2025 interim dividend.
The proposed final dividend for 2025, subject 
to shareholder approval, is 103.0 pence – 
giving a total for the year of 150.0 pence, 
up 15.4% on 2024. This is consistent with 
our dividend policy and reflects a payout 
ratio of 35.7% of AEPS, in line with our range 
of 33-40%. Dividends per share have grown 
at a compound annual rate of 17% over the 
last 20 years.
Share buyback – £2.1 billion
We remain very focused on capital discipline 
and will, from time to time, return excess 
capital to shareholders to the extent that 
we stay within our target leverage range. 
We returned £2.1 billion to shareholders via 
share repurchases in 2025 at an average 
price of £93.44.
We plan to complete a further £3 billion 
of share buybacks over the 12 months 
to February 2027.
Michel-Alain Proch
Chief Financial Officer
Growth in adjusted operating profit 
(on organic, constant currency basis)
+14.3%
2024: +9.0%
Adjusted EBITDA margin
50.3%
2024: 48.8%
Leverage at year-end
1.8x
2024: 1.7x
Net investment in Post Trade 
Solutions transaction in 2025
£0.7bn
27
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
(All growth rates are expressed on an organic constant currency basis, unless otherwise stated).
Reported
2025
£m
2024
£m
Variance
%
Constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Data & Analytics1 3,978 3,859 3.1% 5.0% 5.0%
FTSE Russell 1 954 911 4.7% 7.3% 7.3%
Risk Intelligence 579 531 9.0% 11.2% 11.7%
Markets1,2 3,467 3,180 9.0% 10.4% 8.9%
Other 8 13 (38.5%) (35.6%) (35.6%)
Total income (excl. recoveries) 8,986 8,494 5.8% 7.6% 7.1%
Recoveries3 360 364 (1.1%) 1.0% 1.0%
Total income (incl. recoveries) 9,346 8,858 5.5% 7.3% 6.8%
Cost of sales (1,113) (1,173) (5.1%) (2.7%) (2.7%)
Gross profit 8,233 7,685 7.1% 8.8% 8.2%
Reported
EBITDA 4,365 3,945 10.6%
Operating profit 2,127 1,463 45.4%
Profit before tax 1,969 1,258 56.5%
Basic earnings per share4 (p) 238.4 128.8 85.1%
Dividends per share (p) 150.0 130.0 15.4%
Adjusted5
Operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (3,711) (3,560) 4.2% 4.2% 3.5%
EBITDA 4,523 4,148 9.0% 12.3% 11.8%
EBITDA margin 50.3% 48.8%
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (1,017) (983) 3.5% 4.5% 3.7%
Operating profit 3,506 3,165 10.8% 14.7% 14.3%
Net finance costs (179) (195) (8.2%)
Gains on digital and related assets 11 – n/m
Profit before tax 3,338 2,970 12.4%
Taxation (800) (713) 12.2%
Profit/(loss) for the year 2,538 2,257 12.5%
Equity holders 2,204 1,934 14.0%
Non-controlling interests 334 323 3.4%
Earnings per share4 (p) 420.6 363.5 15.7%
This financial review contains revenues, costs, earnings and key performance indicators (KPIs) for the twelve months ended 31 December 2025. Constant currency variances are calculated on the basis 
of consistent FX rates applied across the current and prior year period (GBP:USD 1.278 GBP:EUR 1.181). Organic growth is calculated on a constant currency basis, adjusting the results to remove 
disposals from the entirety of the current and prior year periods, and by including acquisitions from the date of acquisition with a comparable adjustment to the prior year. Within the financial information 
and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. n/m has been used where variance percentages are not meaningful.
1 During 2025, some revenue items were reallocated between business lines to better reflect our product-led operating model. We have restated 2024 comparators for this and a summary of the 
movements can be found in Note 2.1 of the Financial Statements.
2 From 2025, Capital Markets and Post Trade are reported under a single Markets division.
3 Recoveries relate to fees for third-party content, such as exchange data, that is distributed directly to customers.
4 Weighted average number of shares used to calculate basic earnings per share and adjusted basic earnings per share is 524 million (2024: 532 million).
5 The Group reports adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment, adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment (EBITDA), 
adjusted depreciation, amortisation and impairment, adjusted operating profit and adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS). These measures are not measures of performance under IFRS and 
should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, IFRS measures of financial performance and liquidity. Adjusted performance measures provide supplemental data relevant to 
an understanding of the Group’s financial performance and exclude non-underlying items of income and expense that are material by their size and/or nature. Non-underlying items include: 
amortisation and impairment of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, incremental amortisation and impairment of the fair value adjustments of intangible assets recognised as a result of 
acquisitions, significant impairment of software and other non-current assets linked to a change in strategy or operating model, tax on non-underlying items and other income or expenses not 
considered to drive the operating results of the Group (including transaction, integration and separation costs related to acquisitions and disposals of businesses), as well as restructuring costs.
Financial review
Total income excluding recoveries of 
£8,986 million grew 7.6% on a constant 
currency basis and 7.1% organically. Growth 
on a reported basis was 5.8%. Total income 
including recoveries of £9,346 million was up 
7.3% in constant currency, and 5.5% higher 
on a reported basis. This growth was driven by 
a strong performance across all four divisions.
Cost of sales of £1,113 million declined 2.7% 
on an organic constant currency basis, or 5.1% 
on a reported basis, with underlying growth 
more than offset by a change to the SwapClear 
revenue surplus contract resulting in a lower 
pay away through cost of sales. Excluding this, 
cost of sales growth was 4.9%, below that 
of revenues.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 28
Strategic Report
2024
EBITDA
margin
FX-related
items
1
2024
comparable
Staﬀ costs Third-party
services
Loss of
EuroClear
dividend
Change in 
SwapClear 
revenue 
surplus agreement
2025
underlying
FX-related
items
1
2025
EBITDA
margin
1 FX-related items represent fair value movements on embedded derivative contracts losses (2025: £33 million loss; 
 2024: £40 million gain) and foreign exchange (gains)/losses (2025: £1 million gain; 2024: £1 million gain) and translational FX.
Delivering signiﬁcant margin expansion
48.8% -40bps
+80bps -30bps
-20bps
+60bps
+110bps
underlying operating leverage
+140bps
Labour costs
48.4%
50.5%+100bps 50.3%
Adjusted1
2025
£m
2024
£m
Variance
%
Constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Staff costs 2,301 2,226 3.4% 5.0% 4.2%
Third-party services 344 396 (13.1%) (11.2%) (11.6%)
Total labour costs 2,645 2,622 0.9% 2.5% 1.8%
As % of total income excl. recoveries 29.4% 30.9%
IT costs 668 636 5.0% 7.7% 7.4%
Other costs 366 343 6.7% 10.4% 9.7%
Fair value losses/(gains) on embedded derivative contracts and foreign exchange gains 32 (41) n/m
Adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment 3,711 3,560 4.2% 4.2% 3.5%
1 Adjusted excludes the impact of non-underlying items. A full reconciliation to total operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment can be found in the Alternative Performance 
Measures section of this report.
Financial review continued
Our main costs relate to our people, with 
adjusted staff costs of £2,301 million and 
adjusted third-party services of £344 million. 
These two lines together make up the 
total labour costs for the organisation of 
£2,645 million, and account for 71% of the total 
adjusted operating expense base. The labour 
cost ratio, which looks at labour costs as a 
percentage of total income excl. recoveries, 
has improved by 150 basis points, driven by 
disciplined resource control and the ongoing 
workforce insourcing programme 
implemented from 2024. 
Adjusted EBITDA rose 11.8% to £4,523 million, 
with the adjusted EBITDA margin increasing to 
50.3% (2024: 48.8%). Movements in FX-related 
items reduced the margin by 20 basis points 
in the current period and increased it by 40 
basis points in the prior period. As a result, the 
organic constant currency margin improvement 
year-on-year was 210 basis points, of which 
100 basis points reflected the impact of the 
SwapClear revenue surplus contract change.
Reported depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment of £2,238 million (2024: 
£2,482 million) includes £1,221 million (2024: 
£1,499 million) of non-underlying amortisation 
and impairment which largely relates to the 
amortisation of purchased intangible assets 
(mainly Refinitiv). The year-on-year reduction is 
largely driven by the £235 million non-underlying 
impairment charge taken in 2024, partly offset 
by two months of amortisation related to the 
£1.2 billion intangible asset recognised in 
association with the SwapClear revenue 
surplus contract change. Adjusted depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment of £1,017 million 
grew by 3.7%. The growth in depreciation and 
amortisation reflects our continued investment 
in technology and product.
Reconciliation of Adjusted operating profit to Reported operating profit 
2025
£m
2024
£m
Adjusted operating profit 3,506 3,165
Non-underlying items:
Transaction costs/(costs credit) (25) 15
Integration, separation & restructuring costs (133) (226)
Profit on disposal – 8
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of intangibles and other assets (1,221) (1,499)
Operating Profit 2,127 1,463
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 29
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Data & Analytics 
2025
£m
20241
£m
Variance
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Workflows 1,925 1,899 1.4% 3.1%
Data & Feeds 1,822 1,740 4.7% 6.6%
Analytics 231 220 5.0% 7.7%
Total revenue (excl. recoveries) 3,978 3,859 3.1% 5.0%
Recoveries 360 364 (1.1%) 1.0%
Total revenue (incl. recoveries) 4,338 4,223 2.7% 4.6%
Cost of sales (821) (808) 1.6% 4.6%
Gross profit 3,517 3,415 3.0% 4.6%
Adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (1,900) (1,846) 2.9% 1.4%
Adjusted EBITDA 1,617 1,569 3.1% 8.6%
Adjusted depreciation, amortisation and impairment (574) (561) 2.3% 3.3%
Adjusted operating profit 1,043 1,008 3.5% 11.8%
Adjusted EBITDA margin 40.7% 40.7%
Adjusted EBITDA margin (excluding fair value movements on embedded derivative contracts) 41.4% 39.7%
1 During 2025, some revenue and cost items were reallocated between business lines to better reflect our product-led operating model. We have restated 2024 comparators for this and a summary 
of the movements can be found in Note 2.1 of the Financial Statements.
Financial review continued
Reported operating profit of £2,127 million grew 
by 45.4% on a reported basis, and adjusted 
operating profit of £3,506 million grew 14.3% 
on organic, constant currency basis driven 
by strong income growth and cost discipline 
highlighted above. 
Transaction costs mainly relate to awards and 
incentive plans linked to previous acquisitions. 
Integration, separation and restructuring costs 
primarily relate to the Refinitiv integration and 
totalled £133 million in the period, down from 
£226 million in 2024. The reduction reflects 
the tapering of integration-related spend 
as committed. 
Net finance expense/Tax/
Non-controlling interest
Adjusted net finance expense was £179 million 
(2024: £195 million), and £187 million (2024: 
£205 million) on a reported basis. Both years 
included a gain arising from bond tenders 
(2025: £23 million, 2024: £24 million). The 
reduction in net finance expense includes 
a £12 million gain realised following the 
discontinuance and subsequent redesignation 
of the US Dollar net investment hedge. 
Adjusted gains on digital and related assets 
of £11 million relates to the gain recognised on 
Tradeweb’s sale of Canton Coins. The coins 
were originally received as compensation for 
Tradeweb’s role as Super Validator on 
the network.
Profit before tax increased by 56.5% on 
a reported basis to £1,969 million (2024: 
£1,258 million) and by 12.4% to £3,338 million 
on an adjusted basis at actual rates (2024: 
£2,970 million). The Group’s underlying 
effective tax rate was 24.0% (2024: 24.0%). 
The reported tax charge in the period of 
£463 million (2024: £337 million) represents 
a tax rate of 23.5% (2024: 26.8%). The 2024 
rate was impacted by a legislative rate change 
applicable to the surplus on one of the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes.
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
increased by 8.9% on a reported basis to 
£257 million (2024: £236 million) and by 3.4% 
to £334 million on an adjusted basis at actual 
rates (2024: £323 million). The increase reflects 
the continued strong growth at Tradeweb, 
partially offset by the annualisation impact of 
the additional 11.6% minority interests in LCH 
Group acquired in 2024.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) was 238.4 pence 
(2024: 128.8 pence) with the 85.1% increase 
from last year mainly reflecting strong growth 
in revenue and EBITDA, alongside reduced 
amortisation and impairment charges and a 
lower tax rate. EPS growth was further supported 
by share buybacks over the last 12 months and 
the annualisation impact of the buyout of LCH 
minority interests in 2024. 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (AEPS) was 
420.6 pence (2024: 363.5 pence). The 15.7% 
increase in AEPS year-on-year was driven by 
solid income growth and a tightly controlled 
cost base.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
103.0 pence per share
1, which together with 
the interim dividend of 47.0 pence per share 
paid to shareholders in September 2025, 
results in a 15.4% increase in the total dividend 
to 150.0 pence per share. The final dividend of 
103.0 pence per share will be paid on 20 May 
2026 to all shareholders on the share register 
at the record date of 17 April 2026, subject to 
shareholder approval.
1 ISIN: GB00B0SWJX34; TIDM: LSEG
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 30
Strategic Report
Financial review continued
Data & Analytics provides customers with high 
value data, analytics, workflow solutions and 
data management capabilities. The division 
is split into three areas addressing different 
customer needs. Total revenue excluding 
recoveries of £3,978 million grew 5.0%, driven 
by broad-based strength across business lines. 
Workflows revenue of £1,925 million increased 
by 3.1% with strength in FX, Commodities and 
banking users. The sustained growth follows 
the successful roll-out of Workspace and 
sunsetting of Eikon, the legacy platform, 
as planned. We continued to strengthen 
Workspace’s functionality with enhancements 
deployed across the year, including the 
Workspace app in Teams and new Microsoft 
Excel and PowerPoint add-ins developed 
in partnership with Microsoft. 
Data & Feeds revenue grew 6.6% to 
£1,822 million, with broad-based growth 
driven by an increase in demand for data. 
We continued to enhance our content and 
extend distribution channels across real-time 
and pricing & reference services. This is 
resonating strongly with customers and is 
supporting sustained revenue growth and 
gross sales momentum.
Analytics revenue of £231 million was up 7.7% 
primarily driven by customer demand for the 
Analytics API which gives clients access to 
the full range of the Group’s analytics models, 
and expansion of our distribution channels 
including Databricks and Snowflake. 
Cost of sales of £821 million reflects the cost 
of purchased content and royalties, including 
news, specialist data and exchange data, which 
are required for Data & Analytics products. 
Growth at 4.6% was below that of revenues. 
Adjusted operating expenses before 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment 
increased by 1.4%. Careful management of staff 
costs meant cost growth was below that of 
revenues despite ongoing investment in the 
Microsoft partnership and other product 
development initiatives.
Adjusted EBITDA of £1,617 million was up 
8.6%, with the adjusted EBITDA margin at 
40.7% (2024: 40.7%). Excluding the fair value 
movements on embedded derivative contracts 
relating to the division (2025: £31 million charge, 
2024: £38 million benefit) the underlying margin 
expanded 170 basis points driven by the top-line 
performance combined with strong cost control.
FTSE Russell
2025
£m
20241
£m
Variance
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Subscriptions 630 603 4.5% 7.1%
Asset-based 324 308 5.2% 7.7%
Total revenue 954 911 4.7% 7.3%
Cost of sales (58) (63) (7.9%) (4.5%)
Gross profit 896 848 5.7% 8.2%
Adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (261) (254) 2.8% 5.1%
Adjusted EBITDA 635 594 6.9% 9.4%
Adjusted depreciation, amortisation and impairment (89) (73) 21.9% 23.1%
Adjusted operating profit 546 521 4.8% 7.5%
Adjusted EBITDA margin 66.6% 65.2%
1 During 2025, some revenue and cost items were reallocated between business lines to better reflect our product-led operating model. We have restated 2024 comparators for this and a summary 
of the movements can be found in Note 2.1 of the Financial Statements.
FTSE Russell provides customers with index 
and benchmark solutions across asset classes 
and investment objectives. Total revenue of 
£954 million grew by 7.3%.
Subscription revenue of £630 million 
increased by 7.1% driven by demand for 
our flagship equity indices and benchmarks. 
As highlighted, there were fewer multi-year 
customer mandates due for renewal in the 
year, leading to a more modest growth in 
subscription revenues. We saw good sales 
momentum across our portfolio and further 
commercialisation of new offerings including 
the FTSE StepStone Global Private Market 
indices and the geographic expansion of 
Russell indices. 
Asset-based revenue of £324 million grew 
by 7.7%. We saw strong momentum in ETFs, 
with a record 44 launches across our equity 
franchise, nearly doubling from the prior year. 
While inflows were strong, supported by 
market movements, reported growth was 
moderated by a strong comparator period 
and the impact of a mandate loss last year. 
Cost of sales of £58 million, which includes 
third-party data costs and revenue share 
payments, declined by 4.5%. The reduction 
is driven by last year’s mandate loss which 
had a revenue share component.
Adjusted operating expenses before 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment 
of £261 million grew by 5.1%. Adjusted EBITDA 
of £635 million grew 9.4%, and the adjusted 
EBITDA margin of 66.6% saw an improvement 
of 140 basis points on the prior year driven 
by the strong top-line performance and a 
controlled cost base. Adjusted depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment increased 23.1% 
driven by the depreciation of platform 
investments made in previous years. 
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 31
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Financial review continued
Risk Intelligence
2025
£m
20241
£m
Variance
%
Constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Total revenue 579 531 9.0% 11.2% 11.7%
Cost of sales (53) (46) 15.2% 15.7% 15.7%
Gross profit 526 485 8.5% 10.8% 11.3%
Adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (193) (192) 0.5% 1.4% 2.0%
Adjusted EBITDA 333 293 13.7% 16.9% 17.4%
Adjusted depreciation, amortisation and impairment (48) (48) – 2.3% 2.3%
Adjusted operating profit 285 245 16.3% 19.8% 20.4%
 
Adjusted EBITDA margin 57.5% 55.2%
1 During 2025, some revenue and cost items were reallocated between business lines to better reflect our product-led operating model. We have restated 2024 comparators for this and a summary 
of the movements can be found in Note 2.1 of the Financial Statements.
KPIs
2025 2024
Variance
%
Index – ETF AUM ($bn)
– Period end 1,827 1,433 27.5%
– Average 1,595 1,340 19.0%
Subscription businesses’ KPIs
These KPIs cover the Data & Analytics, FTSE Russell and Risk Intelligence businesses. All growth on an organic, constant currency basis. 
2025 2024
Annual subscription value growth (%) 1 5.9% 6.3%
Subscription revenue growth (%) 2 5.9% 5.9%
Revenue growth in subscription businesses (%) 3 6.0% 6.2%
New KPIs 2025 H1 2025
Gross Sales (£m)4 481 435
Retention rate (%)5 92.4% 92.6%
New product vitality index (%) 6 24% 19%
1 Annualised subscription value growth is a constant currency point-in-time, year-on-year, organic measure of subscription growth in Data & Analytics, FTSE Russell and Risk Intelligence and data 
solutions within Markets.
2 12-month rolling basis. 
3 Total revenue growth, including revenue items not included in ASV growth and subscription revenue growth.
4 New business subscription sales over the last 12 months. 
5 Retention rate reflects the % of annualised subscription revenues from 12 months ago still being received today. 
6 Proportion of revenue from products that are new or enhanced in the last five years.
Risk Intelligence provides businesses with 
screening tools for customers and third parties, 
digital identity verification and fraud prevention, 
and enhanced due diligence solutions.
Total revenue of £579 million grew 11.7%. 
We continue to see strong business 
momentum and customer demand for our 
screening and identity verification services. 
Within our screening business we launched 
World-Check On Demand and World-Check 
Verify, delivering precise, real-time intelligence 
on sanctions, politically exposed persons 
(PEPs), adverse media and enforcement 
actions. Our digital identity verification and 
fraud prevention business saw good volume 
growth with over 500 million transactions 
executed in 2025, up 16.5% from 2024. 
These were partially offset by continued 
weakness in our due diligence business.
Cost of sales of £53 million, comprising data 
and content costs, increased 15.7% on a 
constant currency basis, linked to the strong 
uptick in volumes in our digital identity and 
fraud business.
Adjusted operating expenses before 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment 
of £193 million grew modestly by 2.0%, 
reflecting strong cost control in the period. 
Adjusted EBITDA of £333 million grew 17.4%, 
and the adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 
230 basis points to 57.5% driven by the strong 
top-line performance and disciplined 
cost control. 
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 32
Strategic Report
Financial review continued
Markets 
2025
£m
20241
£m
Variance
%
Constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Organic 
constant 
currency 
variance 
%
Equities 412 392 5.1% 5.1% 5.1%
Fixed Income, Derivatives & Other 1,539 1,334 15.4% 17.3% 13.7%
FX 272 260 4.6% 7.5% 7.5%
OTC Derivatives 641 582 10.1% 11.6% 11.6%
Securities & Reporting 229 235 (2.6%) (3.0%) (3.0%)
Non-Cash Collateral 117 111 5.4% 5.2% 5.2%
Total revenue 3,210 2,914 10.2% 11.6% 9.9%
Net Treasury Income 257 266 (3.4%) (2.6%) (2.6%)
Total income 3,467 3,180 9.0% 10.4% 8.9%
Cost of sales (181) (256) (29.3%) (28.2%) (28.2%)
Gross profit 3,286 2,924 12.4% 13.7% 12.1%
Adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment (1,357) (1,268) 7.0% 8.6% 6.6%
Adjusted EBITDA 1,929 1,656 16.5% 17.7% 16.4%
Adjusted depreciation, amortisation and impairment (306) (301) 1.7% 2.1% (0.2%)
Adjusted operating profit 1,623 1,355 19.8% 21.2% 20.2%
Adjusted EBITDA Margin 55.6% 52.1%
Markets provides businesses with access to 
capital through issuance, and offers secondary 
market trading for equities, fixed income, interest 
rate derivatives, foreign exchange (FX) and 
other asset classes. In addition, the business 
provides clearing, risk management, capital 
optimisation and regulatory reporting solutions.
Total revenue of £3,210 million grew 11.6% on 
a constant currency basis, and 9.9% organically. 
Total income, including Net Treasury Income, 
was £3,467 million, up 8.9%. 
Equities revenue of £412 million increased 
5.1% driven by growth in trading volumes and 
data revenues. 
Fixed Income, Derivatives & Other revenue 
primarily comprises Tradeweb, a global 
operator of electronic marketplaces for rates, 
credit, equities and money markets. Revenue 
of £1,539 million grew by 13.7% year-on-year. 
Average daily volume across all asset classes 
was $2.6 trillion, a 16.9% increase on 2024 
(including the impact of the ICD acquisition), 
driven by Tradeweb’s innovative 
trading protocols.
FX revenue of £272 million increased 7.5%. 
Activity across both our platforms, FXall, our 
dealer-to-client platform, and FX Matching, 
our dealer-to-dealer platform, remained strong, 
benefiting from heightened market volatility.
OTC Derivatives revenue increased to 
£641 million, up 11.6%, driven by growth in 
clearing and compression activity across 
all asset classes, despite a strong prior year 
comparator. SwapClear cleared a record 
$1,941 trillion of interest rate swaps (‘IRS’) 
notional, up 21.2% on the prior year, ForexClear 
launched new forward clearing capabilities and 
CDSClear expanded internationally. Post Trade 
Solutions is also seeing good traction. 
Securities & Reporting revenue of £229 million 
declined 3.0%, reflecting the final impact of the 
termination of the Euronext clearing agreement 
which more than offset the strong volume 
growth in fixed income clearing. The nominal 
value cleared at RepoClear was up 7.8%. 
Non-Cash Collateral revenue of £117 million 
increased by 5.2% reflecting a customer 
preference to hold a greater proportion of 
their collateral in non-cash instruments over 
cash. This trend was reflected in the average 
non-cash collateral, which rose by 4.5% to 
€209.6 billion, while average cash collateral 
declined by 7.1% to €101.3 billion.
Net Treasury Income of £257 million saw a 
2.6% decline reflecting a lower cash collateral 
balance as a result of the reduction in cash 
balances following last year’s loss of business 
from Euronext, and the mix effect noted above 
from favouring non-cash collateral. 
Cost of sales decreased 28.2%, to £181 million, 
largely driven by the change to the revenue 
surplus agreement from the Swapclear business. 
Previously the founding members of SwapClear 
were entitled to c.30% of SwapClear’s revenue 
surplus which in 2024 amounted to €0.2 billion. 
The revenue surplus share was reduced to 15% 
for 2025 and will be 10% from 2026 through to 
2045. Excluding this, cost of sales would have 
increased 6.7%.
Adjusted operating expenses before 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment of 
£1,357 million were up 6.6%, largely driven by 
the strong revenue performance at Tradeweb. 
Adjusted EBITDA rose to £1,929 million, 
growing 16.4%, and the adjusted EBITDA 
margin improved by 350 basis points to 55.6% 
(2024: 52.1%). The change to the revenue 
surplus contract for the Swapclear business 
drove 260 basis points of the improvement.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 33
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Financial review continued
KPIs
2025 2024
Variance
%
Equities
UK Value Traded (£bn) – average daily value 4.8 4.2 14.3%
 
Fixed Income, Derivatives and Other
Tradeweb average daily volume ($m)
All asset classes
2 2,624,828 2,244,948 16.9%
Rates – Cash 549,040 483,627 13.5%
Rates – Derivatives3 955,070 783,234 21.9%
Credit – Cash 17,203 16,040 7.3%
Credit – Derivatives 23,301 17,653 32.0%
FX
Average daily total volume ($bn) 525 479 9.6%
OTC Derivatives
SwapClear – IRS notional cleared ($trn) 1,941 1,601 21.2%
SwapClear – Client trades (‘000) 5,308 3,990 33.0%
ForexClear – Notional cleared ($bn) 48,113 36,617 31.4%
ForexClear – Members 40 39 2.6%
 
Securities & Reporting
EquityClear trades (m) 1,077 1,024 5.2%
RepoClear – nominal value (€trn) 334.2 309.9 7.8%
 
Collateral
Average non-cash collateral (€bn) 209.6 200.6 4.5%
Average cash collateral (€bn) 101.3 109.0 (7.1%)
1 During 2025, some revenue and cost items were reallocated between business lines to better reflect our product-led operating model. We have restated 2024 comparators for this and a summary 
of the movements can be found in Note 2.1 of the Financial Statements.
2 Inclusive of the acquisition of ICD in August 2024.
3 2024 volumes revised from previous reporting to align with Tradeweb disclosures.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 34
Strategic Report
Financial review continued
The Group continued to be highly cash 
generative, with reported EBITDA of 
£4,365 million (2024: £3,945 million), 
reflecting strong top-line growth and 
continued margin expansion. Non-cash 
items impacted EBITDA by £259 million 
(2024: £76 million) with the increase from last 
year including the effect of foreign exchange 
rate movements. The working capital outflow 
of £419 million was largely driven by three 
factors: approximately £150 million of supplier 
payment timing including some upfront 
prepayments, the impact of the SwapClear 
revenue surplus contract change and Net 
Treasury Income timing of around £75 million. 
Total operating cash flow was £4,205 million 
(2024: £3,971 million), an increase of 
£234 million year-on-year.
Total cash capex of £919 million saw a 
£38 million decline year-on-year (2024: 
£957 million), demonstrating our commitment 
to disciplined investment and continued 
reduction in capital intensity.
Equity free cash flow rose 12.0% to 
£2,445 million (2024: £2,184 million), representing 
111% conversion of profits attributable to LSEG 
shareholders (2024: 113%). 
The Group deployed £921 million on the 
purchase of an increased proportion of the 
revenue surplus from the SwapClear business. 
A further payment of £250 million will be made 
in 2026. The Group also received £34 million 
from non-controlling interests in LCH Group to 
maintain their ownership stakes following this 
acquisition. The Group sold a 20% stake in 
Post Trade Solutions to a group of global banks 
for £170 million. Together, these items came 
to a net outflow of £717 million in the year. 
Total shareholder distributions and associated 
costs were £2,870 million (2024: £1,694 million). 
These comprise £2,072 million outflow related 
to LSEG share buybacks, £80 million of 
Tradeweb share buybacks and dividend 
payments of £718 million to LSEG shareholders. 
Total net cash inflow was £515 million (2024: 
£47 million cash outflow).
Cash Flow 
2025
£m
2024
£m
Reported EBITDA 4,365 3,945
Non-cash items1 259 76
Change in working capital1 (419) (50)
Operating cash flow2 4,205 3,971
Net interest paid (187) (180)
Net taxes paid (396) (395)
Capex (919) (957)
Lease payments (161) (156)
Other items3 (97) (99)
Equity free cash flow4 2,445 2,184
Acquisition, disposals and changes in non-controlling interests proceeds 5 (717) (788)
Acquisitions and disposal proceeds of financial assets (151) (17)
Dividends to LSEG shareholders (718) (642)
Net borrowings 1,875 360
Share buybacks (2,152) (1,052)
Other (67) (92)
Net cash flow 515 (47)
1 For 2024, £12 million has been reclassified from changes in working capital to non-cash items.
2 Group cash flow does not include cash and cash equivalents held by LCH Ltd and LCH SA on behalf of the Group’s clearing members for use in their operations as managers of the clearing 
and guarantee systems. These balances represent margins and default funds held for counterparties for short periods in connection with these operations. Movements in net clearing member 
balances include interest paid and received thereon.
3 Includes sales commissions paid, dividends received, dividends paid to non-controlling interests and proceeds on the disposal of digital assets.
4 Equity free cash flow is the cash generated before M&A, returns to shareholders and financing activities.
5 Acquisitions, disposals and changes in non-controlling interests comprise the following items from the Cashflow statement: Payment for SwapClear intangible asset; Acquisition of subsidiaries, 
net of cash acquired; Proceeds from disposal of business; Proceeds from changes in non-controlling interests; and Purchase of non-controlling interests. For 2024, this also includes £377 million 
of proceeds from the Euroclear stake sale.
 
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 35
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Financial review continued
Net Debt/Leverage/Ratings
Net Debt
31 December
2025
£m
31 December
2024
£m
Gross borrowings 11,718 9,965
Cash and cash equivalents (3,949) (3,475)
Net derivative financial assets (171) (36)
Net debt 7,598 6,454
Less lease liabilities (627) (634)
Regulatory and operational amounts 1,204 1,358
Operating net debt 8,175 7,178
Foreign Exchange
The majority of LSEG revenues and expenses are in US dollars followed by sterling, euro and other currencies. A 10 cent devaluation1 in the US dollar 
or euro against sterling has an adverse impact on Total Income (excluding recoveries) of approximately 4.0% and 1.5% respectively. The impact on 
EBITDA is slightly greater, at approximately 4.5% and 2.0% respectively. These sensitivities are approximate and exclude the impact of embedded 
derivatives and other FX-related balance sheet revaluations.
USD GBP EUR Other
2025 Total income2 58% 16% 17% 9%
2025 Underlying expenses3 53% 24% 8% 15%
2025 Total income by division
Data & Analytics 63% 6% 15% 16%
FTSE Russell 71% 21% 3% 5%
Risk Intelligence 63% 9% 15% 13%
Markets 48% 28% 22% 2%
1 Analysis was updated for FY25 average rates and assumes GBP:USD 1.318 and GBP:EUR 1.168. 
2 Total income includes recoveries.
3 Underlying expenses includes cost of sales and adjusted operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Spot/Average Rates
Average rate
12 months 
ended
31 Dec 2025
Closing  
rate at
31 Dec 2025
Average rate
12 months 
ended
31 Dec 2024
Closing  
rate at
31 Dec 2024
GBP : USD 1.318 1.347 1.278 1.251
GBP : EUR 1.168 1.146 1.181 1.205
For definitions of technical terms – refer to the Glossary on page 197.
At 31 December 2025, the Group had operating 
net debt of £8,175 million (31 December 2024: 
£7,178 million) after setting aside £1,204 million 
for regulatory and operational amounts. The 
increase was driven by the acquisition of an 
increased proportion of the revenue surplus 
from the SwapClear business, and the share 
buyback programme in 2025. 
At year end, leverage
1 was 1.8x, increasing 
slightly compared to the previous year 
(31 December 2024: 1.7x). The Group remains 
well positioned within its targeted leverage 
range of 1.5x-2.5x operating net debt to 
adjusted EBITDA before foreign exchange 
gains or losses. 
The Group has access to committed revolving 
credit facilities of £3.0 billion, consisting of a 
£1,925 million facility and a £1,075 million facility, 
both maturing in December 2027. In addition, 
Tradeweb has a $500 million facility expiring in 
November 2028. No drawings were outstanding 
under these facilities or the Tradeweb facility as 
at 31 December 2025 (31 December 2024: £nil).
As part of the ongoing financing of the Group 
and to further diversify the Group’s debt 
investor base, LSEG issued bonds totalling 
£900 million, €500 million, CHF150 million 
and JPY40 billion, with maturities ranging 
from 2028 to 2037.
In March 2025, the Group completed a tender 
offer to repurchase $250 million of the original 
$1,250 million bond maturing in 2031.
In April 2025, a €500 million bond issued 
in April 2021 matured.
LSEG is rated A with stable outlook by 
Standard & Poor’s and A3 with stable outlook 
by Moody’s. LCH Limited and LCH SA are rated 
AA- with stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s.
1 Leverage is calculated as operating net debt (i.e. net debt 
before lease liabilities and after excluding amounts set aside 
for regulatory and operational purposes) to adjusted EBITDA 
before foreign exchange gains and losses.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 36
Strategic Report
Sustainability
Our approach to sustainability
How we report our progress
We make sustainability-related disclosures 
to meet a range of reporting requirements 
across three main publications: this section 
of our Annual Report, our Sustainability 
Report and our Sustainability Databook. 
Readers who want to understand the entirety 
of our approach to sustainability should read 
these publications together. We also publish 
additional sustainability-related materials, 
which are available on our website.
LSEG is preparing to report in line with the EU 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive 
(CSRD) and as such, the way in which we 
report on sustainability information will evolve 
in accordance with these regulations.
1 
Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement
This section of our Strategic Report (pages 
37 to 46) provides information on the topics 
required to be included in our non-financial 
and sustainability information statement (as per 
sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies 
Act 2006), including details of relevant policies, 
due diligence processes and the outcomes of 
these policies. Further detail on all these topics 
can be found within our separate Sustainability 
Report. More information on our policies can 
also be found online. 
Throughout this section of the report, we have 
also included references to indicate where 
text complies with the recommendations from 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and the Companies 
(Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure) Regulations 2022 (CFD).
Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement content index
Page
Business model description  14 to 15
Principal risks and how they 
are managed  52 to 55
Non-financial key 
performance indicators
 18 to 19
Climate-related financial 
disclosures aligned to the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) requirements
38 to 43
Environmental matters  39 to 43
Company employees  44 to 45
Social matters  45 to 46
Anti-corruption and bribery matters  45
Respect for human rights  46
Our strategic framework for sustainability
Our strategic framework for sustainability is 
outlined in the diagram below. To help guide 
our work (and align with regulation), we have 
set ourselves a series of sustainability goals 
relating to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
diversity and inclusion, sustainable finance 
and volunteering.
2 More detail about these 
can be found in our 2025 Sustainability Report.
In 2025, we completed a double materiality 
assessment, aligned with the requirements 
of the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD), which identified sustainability 
impacts, risks and opportunities that are 
material to LSEG’s own operations and 
value chain. The assessment was done via 
a five-step approach which was supported 
by research and stakeholder input from across 
the business. You can read more about the 
process and LSEG’s material sustainability 
impacts, risks and opportunities in our 2025 
Sustainability Report.
1 The Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) is a European Union (EU) regulation mandating companies to report regularly on their environmental, social and governance impacts, 
risks
 and opportunities. Companies subject to CSRD must report according to the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS).
2 We discl
ose our climate goals to align with the Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022 and UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R(8). We disclose our people goals 
to meet the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter. 
Our strategic framework for sustainability
Our objective is:
To be a strategic enabler and steward of sustainable economic growth for the benefit of our customers
Framed by:
 Climate transition  Growth of the green economy  Inclusive economic opportunity
Delivered through our four core pillars:
Sustainable finance products and solutions
We partner with our customers, providing market data, 
insights and infrastructure, helping them to achieve their 
sustainability objectives.
Transforming our own operations
We are embedding sustainability into our business 
operations, policies and processes to manage our own 
sustainability-related risks.
Sustainable finance market engagement and policy advocacy
We engage with market participants and policymakers on 
practices and policies that underpin a sustainable financial 
market for the benefit of our customers.
Empowering communities
We engage with communities to create economic 
opportunity and financial security through education, 
employment and enterprise.
37
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Sustainability governance
TCFD GOV(a) CFD s414CB (2A)(a)
The LSEG Board oversees the Group’s 
sustainability strategy, impacts, risks 
and opportunities, and holds executive 
management accountable for delivery. 
In 2025, the Board had three separate 
sessions on sustainability. These covered 
sustainability and climate reporting, regulatory 
change and a review of LSEG’s sustainability 
performance, including in relation to our 
climate transition reporting.
Oversight of sustainability is delegated 
through a structured governance framework. 
The Executive Committee reports to the Board 
and delegates authority to the Sustainability 
Committee (chaired by the Chief Risk Officer) 
to oversee the Group’s sustainability strategy 
and performance. The Sustainability Committee 
approves the Group Sustainability Report prior 
to CEO and Board signoff, escalates material 
changes to strategy or targets to the Executive 
Committee for approval, and ultimately reports 
to the Executive Committee. Operational 
oversight of the climate transition plan is 
delegated to the Climate Transition Steering 
Committee, chaired by the Group Head 
of Sustainability, which reports to the 
Sustainability Committee. All governance 
is supported by formal reporting, regular 
updates, and integration into committee terms 
of reference. LSEG’s Controllership function 
also works closely with Group Sustainability 
to robustly establish all financial metrics.
More detail on our sustainability governance 
can be found online, along with Committee 
terms of reference. 
The Board and Executive Committee have the 
requisite skills and experience to ensure strong 
sustainability governance, as outlined on pages 
58 to 65. Throughout the year, the Board and 
Executive Committee receive briefings on 
LSEG’s sustainability performance, regulatory 
developments and market trends to ensure 
they are equipped to oversee effective 
delivery of the Group’s sustainability strategy 
and monitor performance. All members of the 
Board and Executive Committee have access 
to an online learning platform with content for 
senior leaders and Non-Executive Directors 
on relevant sustainability topics.
Sustainability risk management
TCFD GOV(b) & RM (a-c) CFD s414CB (2A)(b-c)
Sustainability risk at LSEG is defined in the 
Group Risk taxonomy at a strategic level as 
“the risk of a failure to meet sustainability and 
ESG requirements from a commercial, regulatory 
and stakeholder perspective”. This includes 
climate-related risks, both physical and 
transition, consistent with the TCFD framework. 
Sustainability risk could manifest as specific 
risks, such as the failure of LSEG’s products 
and services to meet sustainability regulatory 
requirements, or the failure to meet 
stakeholder expectations as measured 
by ESG ratings, or the failure to deliver on 
LSEG’s climate transition plan. Sustainability 
risk can also be embedded as a feature of 
other risks, such as operational resilience, 
people, regulatory, compliance, legal, corporate 
disclosure, financial and model risks. 
The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework (ERMF) is used to identify, assess, 
monitor and manage risks appropriately and 
in line with the Group risk appetite. LSEG has 
a low appetite for sustainability risk, as set by 
the Board. The Sustainability Risk Management 
Framework (SRMF), supports the objectives of 
the ERMF and sets out the principles, minimum 
requirements, roles, responsibilities and 
governance required to identify, monitor and 
manage exposure to sustainability risks more 
specifically. The three lines of defence model 
provides appropriate segregation of duties 
and clear roles and responsibilities across our 
divisions, corporate functions, Risk, Compliance 
and Internal Audit.
1 The SRMF applies to all 
divisions and functions and supports the 
delivery of LSEG’s Sustainability Policy, which 
sets out the principles through which the 
sustainability strategy is managed. 
Climate-related risks specifically are identified 
through both bottom-up and top-down 
processes. These include scenario analysis 
to assess potential physical and transition 
risk exposures over short-, medium- and 
long-term horizons, a materiality assessment 
and integration within business planning. 
We consider annually whether any significant 
changes have occurred that could affect the 
conclusions of our existing double materiality 
assessment or climate scenario analysis and 
we update these where material changes 
are identified. All risks, including climate risks, 
are evaluated annually against LSEG’s risk 
appetite through the risk and control 
assessment. Relevant teams are responsible 
for implementing appropriate actions to 
manage the identified risks, with oversight by 
appropriate governance bodies, such as the 
Sustainability Committee, Climate Transition 
Steering Committee and Non-Financial Risk 
Committee. Ongoing monitoring of risks, 
controls and mitigation activities takes place 
throughout the year under LSEG’s Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework. 
Details of the climate scenarios considered 
and the identification of risks and opportunities 
are provided on pages 40 to 41. 
Sustainability risks are reported to the 
Non-Financial Risk Committee when specific 
issues arise, and to the Board Risk Committee, 
which has oversight of the Group’s risk 
framework and risk appetite. Sustainability 
risks, including climate-related risks, are also 
discussed regularly by the Sustainability 
Committee. 
Sustainable finance products and solutions
CFD s414CB (2A) (d)
The opportunity associated with future climate 
scenarios is largely associated with the 
provision of sustainable finance products. 
For over 20 years, we have supported 
customers with our sustainable finance 
products and services. Within our Data & 
Analytics division, we provide sustainability 
data and advanced analytics to help customers 
make informed decisions, manage risk, raise 
capital and meet sustainability regulations. 
We offer four main categories of sustainability 
data products and services across asset 
classes: Sustainability Ratings and Data; 
Climate Transition; Green Economy and 
Sustainable Finance Regulation; and 
Sovereign Sustainability. 
FTSE Russell designs and builds climate, 
sustainable and thematic indices that 
help customers align portfolios with 
their sustainability and investment goals. 
Our solutions support benchmarking, portfolio 
alignment, customisation, product innovation 
and provide comprehensive coverage across 
asset classes. 
Through Risk Intelligence’s customer and 
third-party risk solutions, we provide valuable 
insights into sustainability risks that help 
customers to navigate risk, avoid reputational 
damage, mitigate green crime, reduce fraud 
and ensure legal and regulatory compliance 
around the world. 
Our Markets division enables customers 
to raise capital to support their sustainable 
growth and transition needs, via sustainable 
bonds and green equity capital raising, and 
by providing our debt and equity issuers with 
sustainability data, tools and training materials 
to benchmark performance, inform decision-
making and improve sustainability disclosures. 
Further detail about recent progress relating to 
our sustainable finance products and services 
can be in our 2025 Sustainability Report 
(pages 9 to 11).
Sustainability continued
1 The three lines of defence is a risk management model: 
the firs
t line includes functions/divisions that are risk owners; 
the second line includes functions/divisions that provide risk 
oversight; the third line includes functions/divisions that 
provide independent assurance.
38
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
TCFD/CFD Statement of compliance
Throughout the Sustainability section of this 
Annual Report, LSEG has made disclosures 
against the four TCFD recommendations 
and the 11 recommended disclosures set out 
in Figure 4 of Section C of the report entitled 
‘Recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures’ 
published in June 2017 by the TCFD. The 
climate-related financial disclosures made by 
LSEG plc comply with the requirements of the 
UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R(8) and the Companies 
Act 2006 as amended by the Companies 
(Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure) Regulations 2022 (CFD). Refer 
to the TCFD/CFD content index table (right) 
to identify the pages on which the disclosures 
are located.
The climate-related financial disclosures 
have been prepared and reported for LSEG, 
excluding Tradeweb as it has not been 
practical to obtain and integrate Tradeweb 
data into LSEG’s reporting due to differing 
data-gathering methodologies. Further work 
is in progress to align data collection and 
methodologies to enable appropriate inclusion 
of Tradeweb in future. We intend to finish 
this work in line with the commencement of 
additional sustainability regulatory obligations 
for the financial year 2027 report.
Our climate transition plan
We first published our climate transition plan 
(CTP) in 2022 which outlined our long-term 
ambition, near-term operational targets (see 
page 42), our main decarbonisation strategies 
and our governance mechanisms. Building 
on this original CTP, in 2024 we published 
product-related goals. Progress against these 
product-related goals is described throughout 
our 2025 Sustainability Report and summarised 
in a guide online. In line with good practice, 
we will periodically update and publish our 
CTP, making this available online.
Our climate transition and physical risks 
and opportunities
TCFD STR (a-c) CFD s414CB (2A)(d-f)
In 2025, LSEG assessed key climate-related 
risks and opportunities across short- (<1 year), 
medium- (2026–2030), and long-term (to 2050) 
horizons using two scenarios based on 
International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 
1.9 and 8.5. The two scenarios are as follows:
 – Net Zero 2050 Scenario ~1.5°C: emissions 
follow the IPCC SSP1 – RCP 1.9 scenario, 
which is associated with ~1.5°C
 – ‘Hothouse world’ Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Scenario >4°C: emissions follow 
the IPCC SSP5 – RCP 8.5 scenario, which 
is associated with >4°C temperature rise from 
pre-industrial times by the end of the century 
These scen
arios were selected as they are 
widely used, industry-standard pathways 
relevant for our business. To support this 
assessment, we engaged an external specialist 
consultancy to provide independent scenario 
modelling and expert analysis of physical and 
transition climate risks, opportunities and their 
impacts. This helped to quantify our exposure 
under different warming scenarios and identify 
associated risks and opportunities. 
Scenario-based outcomes inherently rely on 
assumptions and estimates that are informed 
by current climate science, forward-looking 
policy expectations and market projections. 
These inputs may evolve as data and 
methodologies improve, meaning that 
actual impacts could differ from the 
modelled outcomes. 
The output of the 2025 scenario analysis 
assessment is summarised in the tables 
on pages 40 to 41. To inform the climate risk 
assessment we used our Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework to apply relevant 
financial thresholds in our scenarios. Following 
our assessment of the financial materiality 
of climate-related risks in line with the TCFD 
framework, those presented reflect the risks 
considered material to our business, strategy 
and financial planning. 
Sustainability continued
TCFD/CFD content index
TCFD CFD Page
Governance 
(GOV)
(a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities
414CB (2A)(a)  38
(b) Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities
 38
Strategy 
(STR)
(a) Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium and long term
414CB (2A) (d)  38 and 39
(b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organisation’s business, 
strategy and financial planning
414Cb (2A) (e)  39
(c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenario
414CB (2A) (f)  39
Risk 
management 
(RM)
(a) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks
414CB (2A) (b)  38 and 39
(b) Describe the organisation’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks
 38
(c) Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organisation’s overall 
risk management
414CB (2A) (c)  38 and 39
Metrics 
and targets 
(M&T)
(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in 
line with its strategy and risk management process
414CB (2A) (h)  42
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 
the related risks
 42
(c) Describe the targets used by the organisation 
to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance against targets
414CB (2A) (g)  42
39
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Short term risks and opportunities: (<1 year)
Aligns to our annual planning and budgeting cycle to ensure resources are allocated for climate risk mitigation and adaptation within each 
business cycle.
Net Zero 2050 Scenario ~1.5°C ‘Hothouse world’ Scenario > 4°C Mitigation actions
Physical risk
Rising temperatures and water stress may affect 
property and data centre operations.
Transition risk
Energy price volatility may impact direct 
operating costs.
Opportunity
Customer demand for climate indices and 
climate data could increase.
This scenario is highly unlikely to occur in the 
short term, however if this did arise, the following 
risks would be expected: 
Physical risk
Acute disruptions are more likely (storms and 
flooding) to impact property and data centre 
operations and effective supply chain operations.
Transition risk
Higher costs to maintain resilient operations, 
including upgrades to cooling systems are likely.
We mitigate physical climate risks through 
business continuity arrangements and by 
locating critical operations on floors with less 
exposure to hazards such as flooding.
We manage our short-term transition risks 
through ongoing energy-efficiency initiatives 
and procurement of low-carbon power. 
Financial and business model impact
Financial impact
Under both scenarios, we could see an increase in capex requirements 
for energy-efficiency measures, cooling upgrades and flood-resilience 
measures. We may also see higher opex requirements for compliance, 
energy and disaster-recovery activities. Both costs would increase in 
more severe warming scenarios.
Business model impact
Under the 1.5°C scenario, we expect manageable operational impacts. 
Under a 4°C scenario, more acute physical disruption and technology shifts 
could require greater operational adaptability and potential increased 
demand for our sustainable finance products. These impacts would intensify 
in a higher-warming scenario.
Medium term risks and opportunities: (2026 – 2030)
In the medium term, we are taking action to reduce our GHG emissions.
Net Zero 2050 Scenario ~1.5°C ‘Hothouse world’ Scenario > 4°C Mitigation actions
Physical risk
Rising temperatures and water stress potentially 
affect property and data centre operations.
On-premises data centres could be more 
vulnerable to location-specific climate hazards. 
Transition risk
Continued investment could be required in 
low-carbon technology and compliance due to 
energy price volatility which may impact direct 
operating costs.
Physical risk
Significant disruption likely from storms and 
flooding, impacting property and data centre 
operations and our supply chain.
Increasing vulnerability of on-premises data 
centres to location-specific climate hazards 
means that cloud migration could become 
a critical component of operational resilience 
under our direct control. 
Transition risk
Continued higher costs to maintain resilient 
operations, including upgrades to cooling systems.
Opportunity
Climate risk assessments across our property 
portfolio would enable space optimisation across 
locations, which in turn could reduce fixed costs 
and lower environmental impact.
In the medium term, we will continue to mitigate 
physical climate risks to our physical assets 
via business continuity planning, emissions 
reductions and targeted adaptation measures. 
We will advance our energy-efficiency initiatives 
and strengthen our supplier engagement. 
Our plans to migrate some on-premises data 
centres to cloud services will reduce our direct 
exposure to site specific climate risks.
Financial and business model impact
Financial impact
In the medium term, we would expect capex for energy efficiency actions 
to increase and opex for insurance premiums and energy prices to vary. 
These costs are expected to be greater in a higher-warming scenario.
Business model impact
In the medium term we expect to see increased dependence on climate-
resilient data infrastructure to maintain service continuity for customers 
as climate-related risks grow. 
We plan to further manage risks in our supply chain to manage our reliance 
on those suppliers vulnerable to climate risks. These impacts will become 
more pronounced in higher-warming scenarios.
Securing climate-resilient cloud-based services will become increasingly 
critical as will ongoing engagement to ensure mitigation measures are 
in place, especially under higher-warming scenarios.
Sustainability continued
40
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Long term risks and opportunities: (2030 – 2050)
LSEG defines long term climate risks as those extending to 2050 which aligns with the Paris Agreement’s goal of achieving net-zero emissions 
by mid-century.
Net Zero 2050 Scenario ~1.5°C ‘Hothouse world’ Scenario > 4°C Mitigation actions
Physical risk
While chronic risks such as heat stress persist, 
they are expected to be less severe due to 
successful transition.
Transition risk
Carbon taxes could raise costs for fossil 
fuel-based power, with increases likely passed 
on to LSEG as end user.
Opportunity
LSEG could maintain a competitive position 
in sustainable finance and carbon markets.
Physical risk
Severe physical risks persist with disruption 
from storms and flooding, with direct impact to 
property and data centre operations. Supply 
chain operations could be directly impacted due 
to resource scarcity and business interruption. 
Transition risk
Increased compliance complexity and cost of 
global operations due to energy costs and 
resource availability.
Our long term mitigation of physical climate 
risks includes a location strategy that 
incorporates climate risk considerations 
to ensure business continuity.
Transition risks over the long term linked to 
carbon pricing could be mitigated by energy-
efficiency initiatives, increased use of renewable 
energy and emissions-reduction activities. 
Financial and business model impact
Financial impact
Long-term financial impacts differ significantly by warming scenario. 
Under a 1.5°C scenario, we expect the physical risks identified to drive 
higher capex for cooling efficiency, site resilience and technology 
upgrades. We would also anticipate opex increases in insurance and 
compliance costs. Under a 4°C scenario, we would expect the physical 
risks identified to lead to significantly higher capex to maintain a climate-
resilient property portfolio, potentially sharp rises to costs from insurance, 
energy volatility and compliance complexity. 
Business model impact
Impacts will vary distinctively across scenarios. Under a 1.5°C scenario, 
the business would focus on strengthening operational resilience to 
climate-related events and meeting customer demand for sustainable 
finance products. 
Under a 4°C scenario, impacts would become more severe – with greater 
operational complexity emerging due to resource scarcity, supply chain 
instability and heightened physical exposure for key operations.
Sustainability continued
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
41London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
67% covered 
by science-
based target56% covered 
by science-
based target
48% covered 
by science-
based targe t
/uni0394
% of emissions from Scope 3 
purchased goods and services from 
suppliers with science-based targets
2024 2025 2026 target
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
50%
reduction
against
base year
62%
reduction
against
base year
49%
reduction
against
base yea r
Cat. 3
(FERA)
Cat. 6
(business
travel)
Cat. 7
(colleague
commuting)
Absolute emissions (tCO 2 e)
2024 2025 2030 target2019 
base year
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
2019 
base year
20252024 2030 target
Absolute emissions (tCO 2 e)
83%
reduction
against
base year
86%
reduction
against
base year
50%
reduction
against
base year
Managing our emissions
TCFD M&T (a-c) CFD s414CB (2A)(g-h)
The climate-related metrics we use to 
assess and manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities, in line with TCFD, are disclosed 
in LSEG’s 2025 Sustainability Databook. 
We use these metrics to monitor progress 
against our climate targets. The metrics include 
absolute and intensity-based GHG emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2, and selected Scope 3 categories), 
renewable energy consumption, and indicators 
of physical and transition risk exposure. 
These metrics are integrated into our risk 
management processes and inform strategic 
decision-making across the Group. Alongside 
these disclosures, we also report under the 
UK Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 
(SECR) framework, providing detailed 
information on our energy use, associated 
emissions and intensity ratios.
We have set science-based targets aligned 
with the goal of the Paris Agreement and 
approved by the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), as shown in the charts. 
We use these targets to track our 
decarbonisation progress. 
SBTi requires companies to review their targets 
when there has been a significant change 
to the business, the emissions calculation 
methodology or reported emissions. During 
2024, we enhanced our methodology and 
reported a significant reduction in our emissions. 
We are thus required to reassess the suitability 
of our 2019 emissions baseline year and 
the current 2030 targets approved by SBTi. 
We will explore these requirements in 2026.
We continue to enhance our emissions 
reporting through improved methodologies, 
reduced reliance on estimates and proxies and 
strengthened data collection and assurance 
processes. As part of this work, adjustments 
exceeding our 5% materiality threshold have 
led us to restate our 2024 figures with a 4% 
net impact, due to methodology refinement 
and the correction of errors within Scope 3 
data. All 2024 comparatives and year-on-year 
metrics in this report use the restated figures 
to present the most accurate data available. 
For more details, refer to the Basis of Reporting 
within the 2025 Sustainability Databook.
Overall, our 2025 Group greenhouse gas 
emissions footprint reduced by 7% against 
2024.
∆ Our Scope 1 emissions reduced by 25% 
and our Scope 2 (location based) emissions 
reduced by 8% when compared with 2024. 
Sustainability continued
How we are progressing against our climate goals
Target
50% reduction in LSEG’s absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030 from a 2019 
base year
Target
50% reduction in LSEG’s absolute Scope 3 emissions from fuel- and energy-related 
activities (FERA), business travel and colleague commuting by 2030 from a 2019 
base year 
Target
67% of Scope 3 emissions from goods and services purchased by LSEG are from 
suppliers with science-based targets by the end of 2026
∆ Published 2024 emission disclosure has been restated to 
reflec
t methodology refinement and the correction of errors 
within Scope 3 data, which caused a net 4% overstatement 
of prior year emissions. Full details can be found in the Basis 
of Reporting within the 2025 Sustainability Databook.
42
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Sustainability continued
Contributors to this include reduced 
energy consumption, operational efficiencies 
(e.g., reduced generator run times), reduced 
business travel as well as ongoing data 
improvements, including greater use of actual 
rather than estimated data and updated 
assumptions, such as confirming absence 
of certain fuel sources. 
Progress against our science-based targets 
continues. We saw a 15% reduction against 
prior year against our target for Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 (market based) emissions and an 86% 
reduction against our 2019 baseline. We saw 
a 26% reduction against prior year against 
our Scope 3 target (business travel, colleague 
commuting and fuel- and energy-related 
activities) and an overall reduction of 62% 
against the 2019 base year. These reductions 
were driven largely by a Group-wide reduction 
in business travel in 2025. Considered 
together this progress meant that, by the end 
of 2025, we had reduced our carbon emissions 
addressed by our climate transition plan by 
66% from a 2019 baseline.
We continue to work with our suppliers to 
set their own science-based targets. In 2025, 
suppliers responsible for 56% of our emissions 
from purchased goods and services have 
either already set or have committed to setting 
science-based targets. This is against our 
target to achieve 67% by the end of 2026.
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 
(SECR) requirement
LSEG calculates all available emissions sources 
required under the Companies (Directors’ 
Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships 
(Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 
and these emissions sources are reported 
globally for the Group. LSEG calculates GHG 
emissions to cover all material sources of 
emissions where we have operational control, 
as per the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and 
the UK Government Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines. Full details of the methodologies 
applied can be found in the Basis of Reporting, 
within our 2025 Sustainability Databook.
Data from all Tradeweb entities are excluded 
as it has not been practical to obtain and 
integrate Tradeweb data into LSEG’s reporting 
due to differing data-gathering methodologies. 
Further work is in progress to align data 
collection and methodologies to enable 
appropriate inclusion of Tradeweb in future. 
We intend to finish this work in line with the 
commencement of additional sustainability 
regulatory obligations for the financial year 
2027 report.
We report on the emissions categories that 
are material to LSEG entities, based on their 
contribution to our total value chain footprint. 
Where actual data is unavailable, we apply 
reasonable assumptions and proxies to 
ensure completeness and consistency 
in our reporting. 
Unit 2025 2024
% change  
vs 2024
Total
Total direct energy consumption from Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emission sources (kWh)*
Kilowatt-hours
 173,225,501  177,915,551 -3%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tC0 2e) – Market based Metric tonnes  1,758  2,067 -15%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tC0 2e) – Location based Metric tonnes  69,004  75,624 -9%
Scope 1* Metric tonnes  1,299  1,736 -25%
Scope 2 – Location based* Metric tonnes  67,705  73,888 -8%
Scope 2 – Market based* Metric tonnes  459  331 39%
UK Energy consumption (kWh) Kilowatt-hours  50,770,749  50,283,841 1%
Scope 1 Metric tonnes  113  283 -60%
Scope 2 – Market based Metric tonnes – – N/A
Scope 2 – Location based Metric tonnes  8,944  10,307 -13%
EMEA Energy consumption (kWh) Kilowatt-hours  5,436,994  5,301,787 3%
Scope 1 Metric tonnes  138  141 -2%
Scope 2 – Market based Metric tonnes  297  273 9%
Scope 2 – Location based Metric tonnes  1,897  2,499 -24%
Americas Energy consumption (kWh) Kilowatt-hours  84,858,308  87,033,618 -2%
Scope 1 Metric tonnes  569  524 9%
Scope 2 – Market based Metric tonnes  146  27 450%
Scope 2 – Location based Metric tonnes  38,306  41,378 -7%
APAC Energy consumption (kWh) Kilowatt-hours  32,159,450  35,296,306 -9%
Scope 1 Metric tonnes  477  787 -39%
Scope 2 – Market based Metric tonnes  17  32 -48%
Scope 2 – Location based Metric tonnes  18,558  19,704 -6%
Intensity ratio Total Group carbon footprint (tCO2e – Market based) 
per headcount (HC)  0.07  0.08 -15%
Total Group carbon footprint (tCO2e – Location based) 
per headcount (HC)  2.56  2.80 -9%
43
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Scope Unit 2025 2024 2023
Gender
Women on LSEG plc Board
Global Number/ 
percentage
5/38% 4/36% 5/42%
Men on LSEG plc Board 8/62% 7/64% 7/58%
Women in senior leadership roles (ExCo and Group Leaders)
Global Number/ 
percentage
33/36% 39/41% 41/42%
Men in senior leadership roles (ExCo and Group Leaders) 59/64% 56/59% 57/58%
Women people leaders
Global Number/ 
percentage
1,494/34% 1,503/35% 1,488/36%
Men people leaders 2,949/66% 2,847/65% 2,672/64%
Women in workforce
Global Number/ 
percentage
11,247/42% 11,135/42% 10,928/43%
Men in workforce 15,703/58% 15,116/58% 14,680/57%
Emissions are calculated using activity data 
multiplied by appropriate emissions intensity 
factors. These factors vary depending on 
the country of operation, the type of activity 
or service procured and the most relevant 
emissions source. Where possible, we use 
region-specific or supplier-specific factors 
to improve accuracy. In the absence of 
granular data, we apply industry averages 
or recognised international databases 
(e.g., Department for Energy Security and 
Net Zero) to ensure consistency and 
comparability across reporting periods.
Throughout 2025, we have undertaken various 
projects to enhance energy efficiency and 
reduce LSEG’s emissions. For example, we 
invested in an 800kW solar photovoltaic (PV) 
system for the roof of our Malabe campus in 
Sri Lanka. The system was installed in 2025 
and is awaiting grid connection to go live in 
2026. Once connected, we anticipate the 
system will offer on-site renewable energy 
generation equivalent to 61% of the daytime 
energy consumption and deliver long-term 
cost savings. Elsewhere, we are installing 
smart building technology in three pilot office 
locations, with an aspiration to scale this across 
more sites in future. The technology automates 
and optimises a building’s operations using 
real-time data and reduces unnecessary 
energy consumption. Transformation 
programmes continued to lower the density 
of equipment across our data centre sites, 
with the reduction being driven by a new 
software-defined network architecture and 
the movement of on-premise applications 
to our core cloud providers, where energy 
consumption can be more efficiently managed.
Deloitte has provided independent 
third-party limited assurance in accordance 
with the International Standard for Assurance 
Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) and 
Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse 
Gas Statements (ISAE 3410) issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance 
Standards Board (IAASB) over selected 
metrics, identified with ‘*’, within LSEG’s energy 
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 
disclosures. Deloitte’s full unqualified 
assurance opinion, which includes details 
of the metrics assured, can be found online.
Our colleagues
Listening to our colleagues
Through our annual LSEG Engage survey, 
targeted pulse surveys and other touchpoints, 
we gather valuable insight into what matters 
most to our people. During our 2025 LSEG 
Engage survey, 20,448 colleagues (78% of 
our total number of colleagues) shared their 
feedback, leaving 50,028 comments. 
The overall engagement score is a combined 
measure determined from questions on 
colleague satisfaction and likelihood to 
recommend LSEG as a great place to work. 
Our overall engagement score remained 
stable from 2024, at 74.
The survey revealed positive highlights on 
how most colleagues feel empowered and 
receive the support and feedback they 
need from their people leaders. Areas for 
improvement included communicating 
LSEG’s strategy internally and a need for 
continuing focus on customer experience 
and process simplification.
In 2025, we also conducted an LSEG-wide 
sustainability survey to understand what 
colleagues think about our sustainability 
approach. Topics that scored most favourably 
included LSEG’s commitment to sustainability, 
how sustainability is embedded in our values 
and culture, and the benefits of volunteering. 
The survey also revealed colleagues want 
more access to sustainability insights and 
educational materials and they would like 
to understand more about how we’re 
supporting customers with our sustainable 
finance products.
In addition to these surveys, we ran a short 
pulse survey on risk management, a shorter 
LSEG Engage survey, and we continued 
other forms of colleague engagement, such 
as global and divisional townhall meetings, 
specific topical focus groups and quarterly 
Board conversations with colleagues.
Supporting colleague wellbeing
Day-to-day management of colleague 
wellbeing programmes rests with the 
Group Head of Total Reward and Performance, 
who reports to the Chief People Officer. 
Our approach to wellbeing covers four pillars: 
emotional, physical, financial and social 
wellbeing. All colleagues can access the 
Employee Assistance Programme, a free, 
anonymous service available 24/7, and benefit 
from a suite of supportive policies, including 
generous global parental, caregiver and 
bereavement provisions, which underscore 
our ongoing investment in colleague 
wellbeing. Full details of our wellbeing 
approach can be found online.
Career development, skills and learning
Our People strategy drives high performance, 
growth and colleague development, helping 
us build the critical skills we need now and for 
the future. 
LSEG uses Career Navigator to support 
building future-ready skills and career growth. 
This personalised platform helps colleagues 
identify skill gaps, explore career paths and 
find internal opportunities – aligning individual 
ambitions with our business strategy. 
We also run campaigns and initiatives 
throughout the year to support colleague 
career development and learning 
opportunities. In 2025, this included a global 
campaign called “Crucial Conversations – 
Performance and Career” designed to help 
colleagues and their leaders with career 
development conversations. 134 workshops 
were delivered to 3,622 colleagues in 2025. 
Further examples of initiatives and campaigns 
can be found on page 17 of our 2025 
Sustainability Report. 
Sustainability continued
44
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Sustainability continued
1 Executive Committee members and the next level 
of lea
dership, Group Leaders.
We’ve built a clear, consistent approach 
to assessing and rewarding performance. 
At year-end, colleagues receive equally 
weighted ratings for what they achieve – 
aligned to personal, divisional and Group 
objectives – and how they deliver, based on 
our values of Integrity, Partnership, Excellence 
and Change. Quarterly reviews with people 
leaders support ongoing feedback, progress 
tracking and development planning. 
With respect to sustainability education, 
we provide tools and resources to help 
all colleagues build and deepen their 
sustainability knowledge. You can read 
more about these resources on page 18 
of our 2025 Sustainability Report. 
Creating an inclusive culture
Our strategic ambition for creating a diverse 
and inclusive culture at LSEG has four pillars:
 – Create a culture of belonging for all
 – Build a global and diverse leadership team 
that is held accountable for creating an 
inclusive culture
 – Create merit-based processes, enabling 
attracting, retention and promotion of 
a global, diverse pipeline of talent, 
in compliance with relevant laws
 – Create opportunities to convene 
organisations to promote thought 
leadership and progress
Our appr
oach is governed by a global 
Steering Group comprising Executive 
Committee members and key senior leaders. 
Divisional leadership teams lead the delivery 
of action plans within their business areas, 
continuously tracking, measuring and sharing 
progress at that level.
During 2025, we continued with merit-based 
hiring and promotion, working towards our 
goals of maintaining at least 40% women in 
senior leadership and of 25% ethnic minority 
representation in senior leadership by 2027.
1 
At the end of 2025, the number of women 
in senior leadership stood at 36% (down from 
41% in 2024) and ethnic minority representation 
in senior leadership stood at 15% (down from 
16% in 2024). Both figures reflect fluctuations 
in our senior leader population. 
We remain committed to merit-based, 
inclusive hiring and progression at senior 
leadership level, tracking progress via tailored 
business unit action plans. We will continue to 
monitor gender and ethnic diversity across all 
levels and adapt our recruitment and talent 
management strategies to ensure equity 
and attract a broad range of candidates, 
in compliance with relevant laws.
In 2025, we encouraged completion of our 
voluntary Fundamentals training, with an 
average completion rate of 73% for modules 
covering topics such as bias, anti-racism, 
accessibility, and LGBTQ+ inclusion.
We operate a zero-tolerance policy against 
any form of racism, discrimination, prejudice 
or harassment. Our approach to this is set 
out in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy 
available online. You can read more about 
our approach to creating a diverse and 
inclusive culture on pages 19 to 20 of our 
2025 Sustainability Report. 
In accordance with Section 414C(8)(c) and 
Section 414C(9)&(10) of the Companies Act 
2006, we have disclosed the gender diversity 
of Directors, senior managers and employees 
at LSEG in the table on page 44.
Our commitment to pay equity
LSEG is committed to pay equity for all 
26,000+ employees, ensuring no pay 
differences arise from protected characteristics 
or improper bias. Our ambition is to reduce all 
pay gaps, particularly keeping non-identifiable 
gaps below 1%.
People leaders are responsible for making 
fair pay decisions, supported by our Talent 
Acquisition, People Partners and Reward 
teams. Policies are applied globally and 
reviewed by the Executive and Remuneration 
Committees, with ultimate accountability 
resting with the Group Head of Total Reward 
and Performance, reporting to the Chief 
People Officer.
To understand and reach pay equity, we 
perform an annual pay gap review. We assess 
the ‘raw pay gap’, which is the average gap in 
pay between two groups. From this, statistical 
analysis is used to calculate the ‘identifiable’ 
pay gap which is due to differences in location, 
grade, experience, performance etc… We also 
calculate the ‘non-identifiable’ pay gap, which 
is the residual pay gap that is not explained 
by the factors in our model. 
The scope of the 2025 review was the same 
as for prior years. It included pay data in all 
countries where we have colleagues, and the 
gaps were analysed through the gender and 
ethnicity lens. As in prior years, ethnicity pay 
gap analysis focused on the UK and US where 
we are able to collect sufficient amounts of 
information. The results of the review are 
audited externally on an annual basis by 
a specialist third party. 
In 2025, the raw gender pay gap was 31.5% 
in favour of men, a minor increase from 2024; 
1.8% of the raw pay gap was non-identifiable by 
the factors considered in our model. The raw 
ethnicity pay gap in the UK and US increased 
to 20.8% in 2025 in favour of colleagues who 
identify as white. This change reflects the 
smaller proportion of leaders who identify 
as non-white. The non-identifiable gap has 
been narrowing for three consecutive years, 
standing at 0.01% in favour of colleagues who 
identify as white, in 2025.
For more detail on our 2025 pay equity review, 
including our eight-point plan to help us 
continue making progress towards our pay 
equity ambition, see pages 21 to 22 of our 
2025 Sustainability Report. 
Business conduct
Embedding responsible business conduct
LSEG’s Code of Conduct helps us uphold our 
purpose and values, manage risk and deliver 
sustainable growth, the right way. All colleagues 
are required to complete mandatory annual 
training on our Code of Conduct, and in 2025 
98.5% of colleagues completed the training. 
Some of the remaining 1.5% represents 
colleagues on long-term leave e.g., 
parental leave.
LSEG’s Speak Up Policy and process enable 
stakeholders to raise concerns about potential 
breaches of our policies and procedures, 
including the Code of Conduct, relevant laws 
and regulations, or any unethical behaviour. 
The Policy provides confidential and if 
preferred, anonymous, channels for reporting 
and protects individuals from retaliation. 
Reports can be made through the independent, 
24-hour Speak Up hotline. All whistleblowing 
reports are triaged and investigated as 
appropriate, with actions taken where required. 
The Audit Committee is regularly briefed 
on whistleblowing matters and receives 
management information and updates 
throughout the year. In 2025, 192 reports 
were received.
Preventing bribery and corruption
LSEG is committed to supporting government, 
law enforcement and international bodies to 
combat financial crime. Our Financial Crime 
Policy sets out requirements to minimise 
financial crime, which encompasses, but may 
not be limited to, money laundering, terrorist 
financing, international sanctions, bribery and 
corruption, tax evasion, fraud including false 
accounting, insider trading and market abuse. 
Mandatory online training on identifying and 
preventing financial crime is an annual 
requirement for all colleagues.
45
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Respecting human rights
Our Human Rights Standard, Modern Slavery 
Statement, Code of Conduct and Supplier 
Code of Conduct formalise our commitment 
to human rights, define our expectations, 
guide our actions and ensure accountability. 
In 2025, we conducted a Human Rights 
Saliency Assessment across our operations, 
supply chain and products and services to 
identify and prioritise key human rights risks. 
Full details on the five salient human rights 
issues identified for LSEG can be found online 
in our Human Rights Standard. Following this 
assessment, we worked with an external 
consultancy to develop a two-year action 
plan to strengthen our human rights approach. 
This includes education, governance, 
engagement, remediation and reporting, 
aiming to better manage risks, further embed 
human rights in our operations and improve 
communication with stakeholders. 
Maintaining high standards in our 
supply chain
We set clear expectations on environmental 
management, human rights, ethics and 
diversity and inclusion. These supplier 
expectations are formalised through a 
structured governance framework, embedded 
in contracts and our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
We also use our Request for Proposals (RFPs) 
and sustainability questionnaires to assess 
supplier sustainability maturity and future 
commitments, ensuring suppliers are aligned 
with LSEG’s goals from the outset. We apply 
comprehensive due diligence, screening 
processes and direct engagement to check 
suppliers meet our standards.
Investing in our communities
The LSEG Foundation helps people from 
underserved communities access economic 
opportunities and build a secure future with 
financial independence. Working with charity 
and non-governmental organisation partners, 
the LSEG Foundation delivers a range of 
programmes across the globe enabling 
economic empowerment through education, 
employment and enterprise. 
  
The LSE
G Foundation is a charitable 
incorporated organisation with a constitution 
that is registered
1 with, and regulated by, the 
Charity Commission for England and Wales. 
As an independent grant-making charity, 
it is governed by a dedicated trustee board 
currently comprising six internal and two 
independent trustees. The quarterly board 
meetings are chaired by LSEG’s Chief 
People Officer. 
In 2021, LSEG Foundation set a goal to 
positively support and impact one million lives 
by 2030, by activities funded through LSEG 
Foundation grants since 2022. The impact 
of the programme funding has accelerated 
rapidly and at the end of 2025, LSEG 
Foundation passed that number, positively 
supporting a cumulative total of 1,097,845 
lives. A new 2030 goal will be set in 2026 
by the LSEG Foundation Board, to reflect the 
success of the programme and match its 
increased ambition. 
During 2025, the LSEG Foundation granted 
£3,941,566 to 140 charity partners in its 
portfolio, across more than 30 countries 
in which those charities deliver impact, plus 
a further £563,521 of matched funding for 
employee donations and fundraising. 
Charity partners were also supported through 
colleague volunteering, with 8,518 colleagues 
using their paid annual volunteering days 
in 2025.
Sustainability continued
1 https://register-of-charities.charitycommission.gov.uk/en/charity-search/?p_p_id=uk_gov_ccew_onereg_charitydetails_web_
port
let_CharityDetailsPortlet&p_p_lifecycle=0&p_p_state=maximized&p_p_mode=view&_uk_gov_ccew_onereg_
charitydetails_web_portlet_CharityDetailsPortlet_regId=1182952&_uk_gov_ccew_onereg_charitydetails_web_portlet_
CharityDetailsPortlet_subId=0
Strategic Report
46London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Board engagement with stakeholders
Our approach to meaningful engagement is 
built on two-way dialogue, enabling the Board 
to gain a clear understanding of stakeholders’ 
interests, needs and concerns that are relevant 
to the Group’s long-term success. This dialogue 
also helps the Board assess stakeholders’ 
influence on the operation of our business and 
their perspective on the delivery of strategy 
and decision-making. These insights are 
carefully considered in Board discussions and 
decisions, supporting better outcomes for the 
Group’s sustainable success.
We have summarised how the Board has 
engaged with stakeholders and how that 
engagement has influenced Board discussions.
The Board engages our stakeholders through 
a combination of direct engagement by 
Directors and indirect engagement by senior 
leadership, who maintain ongoing dialogue 
with stakeholders. Insights and outcomes from 
these interactions are integrated into our 
business planning processes and regularly 
reported to the Board.
Read more about the activities of the Board 
in the Corporate Governance Report beginning 
on page 57.
The development of strong relationships between LSEG 
and its external stakeholders is an intrinsic part of our purpose 
and culture. The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
strong engagement with key stakeholders throughout the year.
Colleagues
Customers
Suppliers
Regulators and policymakers
Investors
Colleagues
With over 26,000 people in more 
than 60 countries, our diverse 
workforce is central to our success. 
Regular engagement at all levels 
fosters meaningful dialogue 
between the Board and employees, 
supporting an engaged workforce 
that underpins delivery for 
all stakeholders.
Key matters for stakeholder group
 – Progress of strategic partnerships
 – Change management
 – Values-driven culture and
working environment
 – Equity, diversity and inclusion
 – Regular and meaningful
communication
 – Talent acquisition
 – Learning and development 
opportunities
 – Sustainability strategy and 
plans to achieve net zero
More information on employee 
engagement can be found on page 44 
of the Strategic Report.
How the Board has engaged
 – The Board met employees in our London and 
New York offices through “In Conversation with 
the Board” sessions. Participating employees 
represented the different divisions and functions 
across our businesses. These sessions provided 
an opportunity for employees to share their 
experiences at LSEG and voice suggestions for 
improvement. Discussions covered talent and 
succession planning, Board strategy, and 
Board governance.
 – Non-Executive Directors continued to engage 
with our people through employee forums. 
The forums were held quarterly with employees
from different regions. These sessions were 
designed to provide Non-Executive Directors 
with direct exposure to the workforce, enabling 
them to gain insights into employee experiences, 
cultural dynamics and emerging concerns 
across different levels of the business. 
Participating employees were given a valuable 
opportunity to share ideas, and raise topics 
of importance from their respective areas. 
Directors provided feedback, addressing topics 
such as our product-led strategy, embedding 
a strong risk culture, and the growing 
importance of technology and AI. Employee 
concerns raised in the forums were discussed 
at the next Board meeting, and the outcomes 
of these engagements were communicated to 
the wider workforce through intranet articles.
 – Regular townhalls were held at Group and 
Divisional levels in 2025 led by the CEO and 
Executive Committee members, featuring 
tailored discussion topics and interactive 
Q&A sessions. Senior leaders provided 
updates on the Group’s progress in delivering
LSEG’s strategy. 
 – The annual LSEG Engage employee survey provided 
colleagues with an opportunity to share views on working 
at LSEG, with 78% participation and over 50,000 comments 
received. The results were presented to the Board as part 
of the annual presentation of people strategy and culture 
by the Chief People Officer. The Board reviewed employee 
feedback and noted insights around what was working well 
and what could be improved.
 – Don Robert attended the EMEA Sales Acceleration Summit
where discussion points included workplace culture, how 
the Board tracks strategy execution through market data 
and client feedback. 
 – Don Robert also attended the Group Leader Conference 
where discussion points included topics of particular interest 
to the Board, such as innovation and growth opportunities.
 – The Board received regular updates from the Chief People 
Officer on key aspects of the people strategy and culture at
LSEG, including talent and capability development, as well 
as progress on equity, diversity and inclusion initiatives.
How this engagement influenced Board discussions
 – Board members and management provided feedback to 
the Board on employee engagement activities. The Board
continued to recognise the importance of workforce 
engagement, particularly in the context of business 
transformation and change management initiatives.
 – The Board discussed management actions to address 
concerns raised by colleagues, including the need for:
 – clearer communication of the Group’s strategy
and purpose.
 – continued focus on embedding LSEG leadership 
behaviours. 
 – further development of a product-led approach to enable 
teams to solve customer problems and simplify processes.
 – The Board reviewed actions taken in response to themes 
highlighted in the 2025 LSEG Engage survey, including the
need to further embed the Group’s values.
47
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Board engagement with stakeholders continued
Customers
Customer partnerships underpin 
our global diversified business and 
drive value across all divisions. 
Aligning our strategy, services and 
products to the needs and interests 
of our customers is key to delivering 
sustainable long-term growth. 
The Board regularly reflects on 
the importance of our journey to 
becoming product-led and 
customer-centric. 
Key matters for stakeholder group
 – Product development 
and innovation
 – Product quality
 – Digitalisation and transformation
 – Cost management
 – System stability and resilience
 – Strategic partnerships
 – Sustainability
How the Board has engaged
 – Customer feedback is regularly shared with the
Board by the Group CEO, the Group CFO and 
Executive team, providing real-time customer 
insights. A dedicated customer agenda item 
is included at every Board meeting.
 – Each Board meeting included discussions on 
key customer relationships, emerging issues and 
strategic partnerships such as the LSEG–Microsoft 
Partnership (LMP). Directors met with management 
outside of Board meetings to review progress on 
LMP initiatives.
 – Management held engagement meetings with 
customers focusing on strengthening relationships, 
product offerings, technology transformation and 
operational resilience.
 – William Vereker participated in a Fireside Chat titled 
“Everything at Stake – Big Decisions That Define Us”.
This global session, held as part of LSEG Risk Week, 
featured the UK Head of BNP Paribas, a key LSEG 
customer, and the UK CEO of Microsoft in 
conversation with LSEG’s Group Chief Risk Officer, 
exploring the importance of high-stakes decisions 
and leadership in risk management.
 – In 2025, the Board met with a key strategic 
customer during its visit to our New York office to 
gain deeper insight into their priorities and ambitions, 
and to explore how LSEG could continue to partner 
with them across our broad range of services 
and products.
How this engagement influenced Board discussions
 – The Board gained a deeper understanding of 
customers’ priorities and ambitions, supporting LSEG 
to strengthen strategic relationships and further align 
its products and services with customer needs.
 – Customer feedback informed the Board’s view 
on product and service performance, highlighting
opportunities for improvement and shaping 
strategic planning. 
 – The Board supported management in allocating capital 
and investing in technology and operational resilience. 
This included advancing our strategic partnership with 
Microsoft to develop next-generation data, analytics 
and cloud infrastructure solutions, enabling greater 
efficiency, agility and enhanced services for customers.
Suppliers
The Board recognises that 
third-party suppliers are important 
stakeholders of the Group. Certain 
key suppliers play an important role 
as strategic partners and providers 
of cloud services, and news and 
analytics. They support the Group’s 
execution of its strategy and delivery 
of products and services for 
our customers. 
Key matters for stakeholder group
 – Partnerships
 – Communication and collaboration
 – Contract and payment terms
 – Performance measures 
and reliability
 – Joint risk-assessment 
and mitigation
 – Strategic alignment and
growth opportunities
 – Sustainability
How the Board has engaged
 – The Board maintains oversight of the Group’s key 
suppliers. It reviews and approves any supplier 
contracts with a financial value of £50 million or 
more (over the lifetime of the contract), and receives
updates on the management of, and relationships 
with, third-party suppliers where appropriate.
 – The Board endorses management’s approach for 
UK entities to adopt the Prompt Payment Code, 
a voluntary code of practice for businesses, 
administered by the Office of the Small Business 
Commissioner on behalf of the Department for 
Business and Trade. It sets standards for payment
practices between organisations of any size and 
their suppliers. 
 – Each year, the Board considers modern slavery 
risks within the Group’s business and supply chain, 
and approves the Group’s Modern Slavery 
Statement. The Board expects its contractors, 
suppliers and business partners to uphold these 
standards. More information on the Group’s supply 
chain management practices, including the Modern 
Slavery Statement, is available at: www.lseg.com/en/
sustainability-at-lseg/disclosures-and-reports.
How this engagement influenced Board discussions
 – Each Board meeting included discussions on key 
suppliers, notably the LSEG–Microsoft Partnership, 
with a focus on product delivery and the outlook for 
the year. In addition, meetings of the LSEG Microsoft 
Partnership Committee were held during the year, 
which Non-Executive Directors were invited to attend.
 – The Board reviews the terms of material contracts 
with suppliers and approves them as necessary. It also 
oversees initiatives aimed at improving efficiency, 
enhancing sustainability and strengthening supply 
chain resilience. 
 – The Risk Committee provides oversight of the 
risk relating to third-party suppliers to ensure that these
arrangements are managed within risk appetite and 
any issues are appropriately remediated and escalated 
to the Board as necessary.
48
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Board engagement with stakeholders continued
Regulators and policymakers
The Board recognises the 
importance of maintaining an open 
and cooperative relationship with 
policymakers and regulators on 
matters that affect our Group, 
industry, customers and people. 
We share information and 
perspectives with those who 
influence policy and regulation to 
ensure they understand our views 
on issues that impact financial 
markets, and data and analytics.
The Group operates a significant 
number of regulated entities globally, 
which are supervised at the legal 
entity level. Our primary regulators 
interact with the boards of those 
regulated entities rather than the 
Group Board. The regulatory 
environment remains critical to 
the success of our business.
Key matters for stakeholder group
 – Market competitiveness
 – Compliance with applicable
laws and regulation
 – Data issues
 – Sustainability and governance
 – Innovation and technology
 – AI and digital assets
 – Operational resilience
 – Financial stability
How the Board has engaged
 – The Board considers policy, regulatory 
developments and supervisory guidance that may 
affect the Group’s business when discussing and 
making decisions. These considerations span 
operations at the Group, division, region and market 
level. The Board also encourages subsidiary boards 
to proactively engage with relevant regulators. 
 – Regulatory matters and other important themes are
discussed as part of the Chairs’ Forum (comprised 
of the Chair of the Group Board and the chairs of 
several key regulated subsidiaries and attended by 
the Group CEO), the outputs of which are provided 
to the Board.
 – The Board periodically receives reports on 
socio-political events and issues that could impact
the Group and its operations. 
 – In its discussions of strategy, delivery of key 
objectives and matters such as M&A, the Board
considers the priorities and focus areas of 
policymakers and regulators.
 – The Group CEO provided the Board with regular
updates on the views and priorities of regulators 
and policymakers during the year.
How this engagement influenced Board discussions
 – The Board considered macroeconomic and 
geopolitical developments as part of its annual 
strategy session.
 – Developments in regulatory matters, including 
governance and reporting obligations, are 
incorporated into Board papers prepared by 
management and provided to the Board for review.
 – The Board continuously monitors developments 
in regulation and best practice relating to non-financial
reporting requirements, corporate governance and 
the audit regime.
Investors
Our shareholders are critical to the 
long-term success of the Group. 
Maintaining regular and transparent 
dialogue is not only essential for 
building confidence and supporting 
delivery of our strategic objectives, 
but is also a cornerstone of good 
corporate governance. 
Key matters for stakeholder group
 – Drivers of financial performance
 – Strategic and financial outlook
 – Industry dynamics
 – Impact of new technologies
including AI
 – Remuneration
 – Board composition
How the Board has engaged
 – The Chair, Senior Independent Director and 
Committee Chairs were available to engage with 
major shareholders on governance, sustainability,
remuneration and other topics of interest. All 
shareholders had the opportunity to meet and 
ask questions of the Board at the AGM. 
 – On behalf of the Board, senior management 
(including the CEO, CFO and divisional leaders) and 
the Investor Relations (IR) team engaged extensively
with shareholders through one-to-one meetings as 
well as participation at industry conferences in the 
UK and internationally. In 2025, this included over 
580 investor engagements and attendance at 
11 conferences across key markets. 
 – Regular IR updates were presented at scheduled
Board meetings, providing insights from investor 
feedback, outcomes of engagement activities, 
sell-side research and market sentiment analysis 
from corporate brokers.
 – The Board places strong emphasis on investor 
education, supported by the IR team through 
targeted events. In 2025, these included a Risk 
Intelligence webinar, providing deep insight into 
divisional capabilities and growth drivers. In November, 
LSEG hosted an Innovation Forum, a full-day event 
showcasing the Group’s technology and product 
innovation, attended by over 100 investors in person 
and a further 200 online.
 – Shareholders had access to comprehensive online 
resources via the Group’s Investor Relations website 
(www.lseg.com/en/investor-relations), including AGM 
results, financial reports, presentations, regulatory 
announcements and recordings of results calls. The 
Board recognises the importance of understanding 
investor priorities and perspectives, and is supported 
by the IR function, which reports to the Chief Financial
Officer and manages a comprehensive engagement 
programme throughout the year.
How this engagement influenced Board discussions
 – As a result of shareholders’ significant focus on AI 
and its potential impact on LSEG, the Board supported
a more detailed disclosure around drivers of revenue 
in Data & Analytics in our third-quarter trading update, 
which was followed by a full presentation of our AI 
strategy at November’s Innovation Forum.
 – Investor feedback informed strategic priorities and 
capital allocation decisions, helping the Board balance
investment in growth opportunities with returns to 
shareholders. In particular, the additional £1 billion 
of share buyback announced with the third-quarter 
trading update was a proactive measure that was 
strongly supported by shareholders. 
 – Market sentiment and shareholder perspectives were
considered in long-term planning and influenced the 
Board’s decisions on strategic direction, corporate 
governance and sustainability commitments.
49
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Section 172(1) statement
Read more about the activities of the Board in the 
Corporate Governance Report starting on page 57.
Investment 
in Post Trade 
Solutions & 
enhanced 
revenue 
share rights 
to SwapClear
Stakeholders considered:
       
The Board approved a strategic transaction involving 
the Group’s Post Trade Solutions (‘PTS’) business and 
the SwapClear revenue surplus share arrangements, 
reflecting its commitment to long-term value creation 
and alignment with key stakeholders.
This transaction is accretive to EBITDA margins for both 
the Markets division and the Group overall, and was 
accretive to adjusted EPS in 2025, with further benefits 
expected in 2026.
Minority Stake Sale in PTS
LSEG agreed to sell a 20% minority stake in its Post 
Trade Solutions business to 11 leading global banks 
(the ‘Investing Banks’) – key customers of LSEG’s clearing 
services and the Post Trade Solutions business – for 
£170 million, valuing the whole of PTS at £850 million. 
The Investing Banks will have strategic input into PTS’s 
future direction, with three bank-nominated directors 
joining the PTS Board. This strengthens LSEG’s strategic 
partnership model with its customers, replicating the 
original LCH model that continues to prove so successful 
for LCH and its customers.
Acquisition of Additional SwapClear Revenue 
Surplus Share
As part of the same transaction, LSEG also agreed to 
acquire a greater share of the revenue surplus from the 
SwapClear business, reducing SwapClear’s founding 
members’ (which includes the Investing Banks) 
entitlement from 30% to 15% in 2025 (effective from 
1 January 2025) and to 10% from 2026. In return, LSEG will 
pay: i) £1.2 billion in two instalments (in 2025 and 2026); 
and ii) up to £200 million in contingent consideration, 
should certain future growth targets be met.
The Investing Banks have extended their 10% revenue 
share entitlement from 2035 to 2045, reinforcing their 
long-term commitment to the partnership. 
Board considerations:
The Board’s decision to proceed with this transaction 
reflects its long-standing commitment to innovation, 
customer partnership and long-term value creation. 
The SwapClear business, founded in collaboration with 
clearing members 25 years ago, has been instrumental 
in driving growth and robust risk management in the 
OTC derivatives market. This success has been 
underpinned by a deep, strategic partnership with 
our customers.
Building on this foundation, the Board recognised 
a significant opportunity to extend this collaborative 
model through the Post Trade Solutions transaction. 
The decision was informed by a clear understanding 
of stakeholder interests – particularly those of our 
clearing and PTS customers – and the potential to 
deliver material efficiencies in capital, risk and 
operational processes across the bilateral OTC 
derivatives market.
The Board carefully considered the strategic, financial 
and stakeholder implications of the transaction, 
including strengthening long-term partnerships 
with key customers; enhancing governance through 
customer representation on the PTS Board; improving 
capital efficiency and revenue alignment through 
revised surplus share arrangements; and supporting 
the Group’s growth strategy and delivering accretive 
financial outcomes.
Additional information about 
the investment in PTS and 
SwapClear revenue surplus 
share arrangements can 
be found on page 27.
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (Section 172) requires 
a director of a company to act in the way he or she considers, 
in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the 
company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
This section forms our Section 172 disclosure, 
detailing how the Directors considered the 
matters set out in Section 172 (1) (a) to (f) of the 
Companies Act 2006 when performing their 
duty to promote the success of the Company. 
The Board’s engagement with stakeholders 
enables the Directors to understand how the 
Group’s strategy and operations affect key 
stakeholder groups, as well as to consider 
their interests and perspectives. Throughout 
the year, the Board and individual Directors 
engage with a broad range of stakeholders 
– both directly and through management – 
The three key decisions/decision areas 
outlined in this section (the investment in 
Post Trade Solutions, the Share Buyback 
Programmes and Strategic Partnerships) 
highlight the Board’s active role in shaping 
the Group’s strategic direction. These decisions 
have been identified as strategically significant 
to the Group, or particularly relevant to our 
stakeholders. They demonstrate how the 
Board considers a range of stakeholder 
interests and impacts when making decisions 
aimed at promoting the long-term success 
of the Company.
to develop this understanding. These insights 
support the Board in fulfilling its duties under 
Section 172(1) and contribute to robust 
discussion and well-informed decision-making. 
While the Board takes stakeholder views into 
account, it recognises that not every decision 
will align with the interests of all stakeholders. 
The Board considers the Group’s key 
stakeholders to be: customers; workforce; 
shareholders/investors; policymakers and 
regulators; and suppliers. Further details on 
the Board’s engagement with our stakeholders 
can be found on pages 47 to 49.
 Colleagues    Customers    Suppliers    Regulators and policymakers    Investors 
50
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Section 172(1) statement continued
Share buyback 
programmes
Stakeholders considered:
     
During 2025, the Board approved three share buyback 
programmes, resulting in total share repurchases of 
£2.5 billion over the 12-month period from March 2025 
to February 2026. The Directors exercised the authorities 
granted at the 2024 and 2025 Annual General Meetings 
(AGMs) to implement these programmes. On 3 March 
2025, the Company announced a share buyback 
programme with Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc 
to repurchase ordinary shares for a total consideration of 
£500 million. On 4 August 2025, a second programme 
was launched with Goldman Sachs International to 
repurchase ordinary shares with an aggregate value of 
up to £1 billion. Most recently, on 4 November 2025, the 
Company commenced a third buyback programme with 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited for a further £1 billion.
Board considerations:
The Board reviewed management’s proposals to return 
value to shareholders through the market purchase of 
the Company’s own shares. In reaching its decision, 
the Board carefully evaluated the views and potential 
impacts on a broad range of stakeholders.
Key considerations included the implications for the 
Group’s credit rating and leverage, capital requirements, 
future M&A opportunities, debt capacity and delivery 
of sustainable returns. The Board was mindful to ensure 
that the proposed share buybacks would not hinder the 
Group’s ability to invest in growth and strategic initiatives. 
The Board maintains oversight of the Group’s capital 
allocation strategy, including shareholder returns. 
Decisions are made in the context of prevailing market 
conditions and the macroeconomic outlook, with the 
aim of optimising capital resources while considering 
regulatory requirements, strategic priorities and LSEG’s 
risk appetite. The Board also considered the impact of 
these capital allocation decisions on key stakeholders, 
including shareholders, employees and pension 
scheme members. The buybacks were fully aligned 
with LSEG’s capital allocation policy and were 
supported by shareholders.
Further details on the share 
buyback programmes can be 
found in the Chief Financial 
Officer’s review on page 27 
and in the Directors’ Report 
on pages 104 and 105.
Strategic 
partnerships
Stakeholders considered:
       
Microsoft partnership
The Board continued to recognise the importance of its 
strategic partnership with Microsoft in enhancing LSEG’s 
products and strengthening its competitive position. 
During 2025, the partnership made strong progress, 
and the Board dedicated regular time to discussing its 
development, both during formal Board meetings and 
through engagement with senior executives outside 
of those meetings.
Through this collaboration, LSEG is transforming access 
to financial data by leveraging cutting-edge, AI-driven 
innovation at scale. The partnership enables customers 
to build, deploy and scale agentic AI directly into their 
workflows, supported by secure and seamless connectivity. 
This capability helps financial professionals unlock 
deeper insights, accelerate decision-making and 
streamline complex workflows.
Amazon Web Services collaboration
The Board continues to consider the interests of 
stakeholders in relation to LSEG’s cloud strategy and 
technology partnerships. In line with this, LSEG extended 
its multi-year collaboration with Amazon Web Services 
(AWS), to support its Markets, Risk Intelligence and FTSE 
Russell divisions. This builds on the existing relationship 
between the two organisations and reflects the Board’s 
commitment to enhancing operational resilience, security 
and innovation.
By migrating internal systems to the cloud, LSEG aims 
to strengthen its infrastructure while delivering new 
services and products to customers. The adoption of 
advanced cloud-based generative AI capabilities will 
enable the Risk Intelligence division to provide faster 
and more accurate risk analysis, helping customers 
remain agile and resilient in a dynamic market 
environment. Through the AWS partnership, LSEG will 
continue to offer customers access to historical and 
quantitative FTSE Russell indices, supporting deeper 
market insights and reducing time-to-insight and 
operational costs. In addition, LSEG Markets will make 
use of cloud enabled, scalable infrastructure solutions 
to deliver resilient services to its global customer base.
Board considerations:
The Board actively considered strategic technology 
partnerships, including those with Microsoft and 
Amazon Web Services (AWS), as part of its oversight 
of the Group’s long-term strategy. These partnerships 
are central to LSEG’s transformation agenda, supporting 
innovation, operational resilience and enhanced 
customer experience.
The decision-making process at Board level involved 
a structured evaluation of each partnership’s strategic 
alignment with the Group’s objectives. Directors 
considered how the partnerships would deliver 
long-term value for shareholders and other 
stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, 
employees and regulators. Other important factors 
included the promotion of sustainable growth and 
the maintenance of high standards of resilience and 
security. The Board also reviewed potential risks 
and benefits associated with cloud migration, AI 
integration and data infrastructure modernisation.
The Board considers the partnership with Microsoft to 
be a key enabler of long-term value creation. It reflects 
a shared commitment between LSEG and Microsoft to 
redefine the future of financial services through secure, 
AI-powered innovation. By combining LSEG’s trusted 
market data with Microsoft’s cloud and AI capabilities, 
LSEG empowers its customers while reinforcing its 
market position in Data and Analytics. Similarly, the 
AWS collaboration supports the Group’s commitment 
to innovation, customer experience and operational 
excellence. It helps to ensure that stakeholder interests 
are considered in the development and deployment 
of cloud-based solutions, particularly in areas such 
as risk intelligence, index data delivery and 
infrastructure resilience.
Ongoing dialogue at Board level ensures continued 
oversight of these partnerships, with regular updates 
from management on progress, customer feedback 
and future development plans. The Board views these 
collaborations as key enablers of LSEG’s long-term 
strategy to provide customers with a global financial 
markets infrastructure and data ecosystem.
Further information on the 
LSEG–Microsoft Partnership, 
including key achievements 
in 2025 and planned 
developments in 2026, can 
be found in the Strategic 
Report on page 12.
51
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernance
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Principal risks and uncertainties
Managing risk is fundamental to the successful execution 
of our strategy and the resilience of our operations.
Our risk management approach is described 
below, including key enablers such as our 
organisational and risk governance structures, 
risk culture and risk appetite. We also describe 
the principal risks faced by the Group, 
together with their Executive leads and 
mitigation activities.
As well as our principal risks, we continuously 
identify, monitor and assess external emerging 
risks that have the potential to impact our 
businesses. In most cases, we mitigate such 
risks through the establishment of appropriate 
contingency plans and continue to monitor 
the development of the risks until they can be 
properly quantified and removed or included 
as a principal risk.
Risk management approach
Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(ERMF) sets out our approach to risk 
management throughout the full risk lifecycle, 
from identification through to mitigation, 
monitoring and reporting. It also outlines 
the key enablers of our approach across 
governance, organisational structure and 
culture that support its implementation 
across our businesses.
LSEG operates a three lines of defence model, 
providing appropriate segregation of duties 
and clear roles and responsibilities, including 
Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit. 
Accountability for risk management across the 
end-to-end product or service delivery sits 
within the first line of defence, independent 
oversight and challenge with the second line 
and objective, independent assurance with 
the third line. Risk culture is a key enabler 
of our three lines of defence by ensuring 
everyone understands and embraces their 
role in managing risks. The ERMF promotes 
our risk culture and accountability by 
articulating risk appetite and desired 
behaviours through policies, providing 
frameworks and tools to ensure risk is 
considered in key business decisions. It also 
makes risks transparent by embedding 
individual accountability through employee 
objectives and performance management.
In order to support a coherent view of risk 
across our businesses, we have in place 
a Group Risk Taxonomy that provides an 
inventory of all types of risks that are identified 
as inherent in business strategies and 
objectives. These include strategic, non-
financial and financial risks, and are then 
reflected in our Group Risk Appetite Statements 
and managed through principles set out in 
our Group policies. Regular risk assessments 
determine whether risks are within the risk 
appetite set by the Board and are reported 
to senior management and the Board.
Group risk appetite
Risk appetite is the level of risk that we will 
accept in pursuit of our strategic objectives. 
The risk appetite is one of the key principles 
of the ERMF and is used as a benchmark for 
both assessment and monitoring of the risks 
in our Group Risk Taxonomy, with regular 
reporting of aggregated risks to Executive 
and Board-level committees.
The Board approves our risk appetite annually, 
which is cascaded through the organisation 
with divisions and functions establishing 
more detailed risk appetite statements and 
monitoring their risk profile against the agreed 
appetite levels. Any risks that are outside of 
these agreed appetite levels are escalated 
through our risk governance structures and 
to the appropriate risk committees and boards.
Risk governance
Effective governance and oversight are 
enabled through our risk governance structure 
that comprises Board-level (Board, Board 
Audit and Board Risk) and Executive-level 
committees to promote active discussion 
and resolution of risk issues.
Group-level committees include: an overall 
Group Executive Risk Committee, and 
Group-level subcommittees including the 
Financial; Model; Technology, Cyber and 
Resilience; and Non-Financial Risk Committees, 
all of which meet on a regular basis. Other 
subcommittees, such as the New Product and 
Reputational Risk Committee, meet on an ad 
hoc basis as required. Each of these committees 
has detailed Terms of Reference, approved by 
the Board or their parent committee, which sets 
out their respective roles and responsibilities.
Principal risks 
The principal risks outlined below reflect risks 
that have been deemed to be material to our 
businesses. These risks are grouped across 
the categories of Strategic, Financial and 
Model, and Non-Financial risks and include 
a description of the specific exposures they 
present to our businesses and the mitigation 
activities we have in place to address them.
Strategic Report
52London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Strategic risks
Strategic risks are risks that could impact the successful execution of our strategy.
Risk category Risk description Mitigation
Global 
economic and 
geopolitical 
Executive lead
Chief Executive Officer
Risk trend
LSEG’s global footprint exposes us to economic and 
geopolitical developments that may impact market 
activity and performance. Conflicts in Ukraine and 
the Middle East, shifting Western relations with China 
and protectionist US policies such as tariffs and trade 
restrictions, are reshaping global trade and investment 
flows, which contribute to financial regionalisation, 
increased volatility and slower growth, and in turn 
may reduce transaction volumes and revenues across 
our markets.
Our diversified revenue streams across regions, customers 
and recurring subscriptions help manage localised downturns 
and short-term market shifts. In volatile conditions, our Markets 
businesses benefit from increased trading activity. We actively 
monitor market movements, hedge foreign exchange and interest 
rate exposures and stress-test financial resilience to manage 
potential impacts. We also regularly assess geopolitical and 
macroeconomic risks and integrate them into strategic 
planning with oversight from our Financial and Non-Financial 
Risk Committees.
Sustainability 
Executive lead
Chief Risk Officer, 
Divisional Group Heads
Risk trend
Environmental, social and governance factors present 
evolving risks to our businesses, including regulatory 
compliance, reputational exposure and financial 
impacts. The risk of scrutiny or adverse consequences 
may arise even where we comply with laws and 
regulations as views of governments and regulatory 
authorities diverge across jurisdictions. Climate-related 
risks, both physical (e.g., extreme weather affecting 
assets and people) and transitional (e.g., policy shifts, 
product availability and market changes) may also 
affect operations as global standards and expectations 
continue to develop.
See the Sustainability section on pages 37 to 46 of this 
report and our Sustainability Report for further detail.
We have embedded sustainability risks in our Group Risk 
Taxonomy and manage these through our Sustainability Risk 
Management Framework, which defines the minimum requirements 
for identifying, assessing and managing these risks. All business 
areas are responsible for identifying and assessing the exposure 
their operations have to these risks which is done through a 
variety of methods, such as horizon scanning, emerging risk 
reviews, formal Risk and Control Assessments and climate risk 
modelling. Oversight is integrated into our strategic planning and 
is supported by ongoing monitoring of risk exposures, including 
greenwashing, product risks, regulatory developments and 
climate risks.
Reputation/
Brand/IP 
Executive lead
Group Chief Corporate 
Affairs and Marketing 
Officer
Risk trend
Our reputation and globally recognised brands are 
critical to our credibility and commercial success. 
A single incident, whether operational, legal or 
market-related, can impact brand value across the 
Group. As our different businesses have continued to 
become more closely integrated, potential reputational 
exposure has increased. Additionally, limited intellectual 
property protection could allow our competitors to 
develop or otherwise protect similar or the same 
products or processes, impacting our competitiveness 
and resulting in legal or financial costs or lower revenues.
We actively monitor brand usage and enforce guidelines to protect 
our reputation and prevent infringement. Reputational risks are 
escalated through governance forums, supported by coordinated 
corporate affairs, marketing and stakeholder engagement plans. 
We also monitor the assessment of reputational risks that is 
completed as part of our new products and initiatives approval 
process. Our values and Code of Conduct reinforce responsible 
behaviour across the Group. We also safeguard our intellectual 
property through legal protections and contractual arrangements 
with employees, partners and third parties.
Transformation 
Executive lead
Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Operating Officer
Risk trend
We are delivering a significant change agenda across 
strategic programmes, including platform and product 
upgrades, cloud migration, integration of acquisitions 
and the execution of the LSEG-Microsoft Partnership. 
These initiatives introduce execution risk as we adapt 
to evolving customer needs, integrate new 
technologies and improve our technology estate. 
Rapid market and technological shifts, including the 
continued advancement of artificial intelligence (AI), 
heighten the risk of disruption to our business model, 
whilst also impacting delivery of change and 
operational resilience.
We manage transformation risk through the application of 
the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework and 
our documented Group Delivery Disciplines. Together, these 
establish the minimum requirements for delivering change and 
support consistent oversight and governance across strategic 
programmes, acquisitions and divestments. This is further 
embedded through our Transformation and Change Frameworks, 
which provide standards and guidance for effective programme 
assessment, execution and integration of acquisitions. Group Risk 
monitor transformation activities and execution risk with Internal 
Audit providing independent assurance over select programmes. 
The Group Investment Committee is the Executive Committee 
which provides oversight of the strategic change portfolio.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
 Increasing  Stable  Decreasing
53
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial and model risks 
The risk of financial failure or loss of earnings and/or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and/or the 
inappropriate use of models.
Risk category Risk description Mitigation
Central 
counterparty 
Executive lead
Head of Markets 
Risk trend
Through LCH, we are exposed to financial and 
operational risks inherent in central clearing. In the 
event of a member default, the central counterparty 
(CCP) must manage market and liquidity risks while 
restoring a matched book, potentially incurring losses 
from adverse price movements or liquidation costs. 
Additional risks arise from investing member collateral 
and fulfilling payment obligations, alongside non-financial 
risks such as legal, compliance and reputational 
exposures linked to day-to-day operations.
We have structured LCH to withstand major member defaults 
through the implementation of the CCP rulebook and layered 
financial safeguards, including margin requirements, default 
funds and the holding of its own capital. Investment risk is 
managed via strict counterparty and asset eligibility criteria, with 
a focus on liquidity and capital preservation. We regularly test 
these protections through fire-drills and stress-testing activities. 
LCH’s Investment and Liquidity Risk Framework, which utilises 
internal credit scoring, portfolio limits and liquidity stress tests, 
ensures our resilience under extreme market conditions.
Model risk 
Executive lead
Divisional Group Heads, 
Chief Risk Officer
Risk trend
We rely on a wide range of models across our business 
to support decision-making, risk management, analytics 
and regulatory compliance. These include margining 
models, market abuse detection, stress testing and 
climate risk modelling. Risks arise from potential flaws 
in the design, data sourcing, incorrect implementation 
or misuse of model outputs, which can in turn lead to 
financial loss or reputational harm. The growing use 
of artificial intelligence particularly ‘generative’ and 
‘agentic’ models introduces new dimensions of risk, 
with the potential for hallucinations, or unintended or 
unpredictable behaviours also causing loss or harm.
We manage model risk through a comprehensive governance 
framework, including a model risk policy, lifecycle controls and 
a centralised model management system. All our models undergo 
independent validation that considers their design, intended 
use and input, including where AI capabilities are employed. 
Key models are subject to a formalised monitoring process. 
Oversight is provided by our Model Risk Committee, supported 
by divisional working groups to ensure full coverage and 
alignment with risk objectives. Regular, independent review of 
models by our Model Risk Management team helps to identify 
and assess models with potential business impact, reinforcing 
accountability and control across the Group.
Non-financial risks
The risk of loss or other adverse consequences to the business resulting from the inadequacy of, or failures associated with, internal processes, 
people and systems, or from external events.
Risk category Risk description Mitigation
Technology 
Executive lead
Chief Information Officer
Risk trend
Our products and services depend on complex, 
interconnected technology systems, both internal 
and third-party. Disruptions such as system outages, 
performance degradation, or failures due to change 
activities or ageing infrastructure could impact 
customer access, interrupt market operations and 
affect data service and delivery. As our reliance on 
digital platforms and use of AI grows, so does the 
potential impact of technology-related incidents 
on business continuity and stakeholder confidence.
We continue to invest in strengthening the resilience of our 
technology estate through strategic upgrades and lifecycle 
management. Technology changes are governed by a robust 
change framework, with rigorous testing to ensure stability. 
Key risk indicators and scenario analysis also help us identify 
vulnerabilities, and plan and test recovery strategies. Cloud 
migration is enhancing our service resilience, while improved 
monitoring tools support faster issue detection and recovery 
when incidents occur.
Information and 
cyber security 
Executive lead
Chief Information Officer
Risk trend
We are exposed to cyber threats targeting our 
systems and data, including attempts to access, 
disrupt or compromise information. The evolving 
geopolitical landscape and rapid adoption of 
emerging technologies continue to intensify the threat 
environment. As a financial markets infrastructure 
provider, a significant cyber incident could not only 
impact our operations and customers but also pose 
systemic risks to the broader financial sector and 
global markets.
We manage our cyber risk through continuous investment in 
security capabilities and a dedicated cyber security function 
led by the Chief Information Security Officer. Threat intelligence 
is proactively gathered and assessed to stay ahead of evolving 
adversaries. Our approach aligns with industry frameworks, 
including the NIST-based Cyber Risk Institute profile, and meets 
regulatory assurance standards. While we cannot fully eliminate 
cyber risk, our focus remains on resilience to withstand and 
recover from cyber attacks with minimal disruption to our 
operations and stakeholders.
Business 
continuity 
Executive lead
Chief Operating Officer, 
Chief Risk Officer, 
Divisional Group Heads
Risk trend
We are exposed to potential operational disruption 
from a range of geopolitical, environmental, public 
infrastructure and other external events. Such 
disruptions can affect customer access and 
market stability. 
We maintain a robust Group Crisis Management Framework 
to guide response and recovery during disruptive events. 
This includes escalation protocols, crisis team plans, and scenario 
playbooks covering threats such as ransomware, geopolitical 
events, third-party outages. We deliver annual training across 
the Group, which prioritises staff wellbeing and critical services. 
Routine use of the framework ensures we effectively prepare 
for, triage, communicate and recover, supporting operational 
resilience and continuity of service.
 Increasing  Stable  Decreasing
54
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Risk category Risk description Mitigation
Third-party 
Executive lead
Chief Operating Officer, 
Divisional Group Heads, 
Chief Information Officer
Risk trend
We rely on third-party providers, including cloud 
services, to support our operations and service 
delivery. These relationships expose the Group to 
a range of non-financial risks, such as technology, 
cyber, geopolitical, regulatory and reputational 
risks. Failures by third parties to meet contractual 
or regulatory obligations could result in service 
disruption, financial loss, increased costs or 
reputational harm.
Our Third-Party Risk Management Framework covers the full 
lifecycle from the selection and contracting to the monitoring 
and exit of third parties and ensures risks are identified, assessed 
and actively managed at key stages, with a focus on maintaining 
service continuity and compliance. We closely monitor 
relationships with critical providers to ensure they meet 
contractual and regulatory obligations, helping to prevent 
disruption and safeguard operational resilience.
Data 
Executive lead
Divisional Group Heads, 
Chief Operating Officer
Risk trend
We collect, process and distribute data across a wide 
range of formats and use cases. Failure to manage data 
effectively, whether in terms of quality, usage rights 
or record management, could lead to reputational 
damage, financial loss or regulatory action. As an 
integrated financial markets infrastructure business, 
improper use of data may also impact customer trust 
and compliance obligations.
Data risk is managed through our comprehensive governance 
framework led by Enterprise Information Governance, divisional 
Chief Data Officers and Privacy Officers. Our controls and 
monitoring activities mitigate risks relating to data accuracy, 
security and lawful use, across the full data lifecycle. Our privacy 
compliance is supported by activities aligned with global data 
protection regulations, helping to safeguard personal and 
sensitive information.
People  
and talent 
Executive lead
Chief People Officer
Risk trend
Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends 
on attracting, developing and retaining diverse, 
high-performing talent. Risks may arise from insufficient 
career development, compensation challenges or 
ineffective leadership and organisational structures. 
External factors such as market competition and 
geopolitical conditions may further impact our 
workforce engagement and ability to retain our staff.
We are continuously embedding our values across the 
organisation, supported by our performance model and various 
leadership programmes. Equity, diversity and inclusion remain 
a priority, with active networks, updated policies and enhanced 
benefits aimed at fostering a culture of belonging. Career 
development, succession planning and leadership training 
are actively promoted, alongside a structured framework for 
promotion and progression to ensure our people have the skills 
and support needed to thrive.
Regulatory 
change and 
compliance 
Executive lead
General Counsel, 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Divisional Group Heads
Risk trend
As a global business, we operate within diverse, 
complex and evolving cross-border regulatory 
environments and must anticipate and adapt to 
changes in these regulations to ensure ongoing 
compliance. Specific regulatory risks to our business 
include market access, market competitiveness, 
data issues including localisation, financial crime 
and operational resilience.
The Group Compliance function sets global policies, defines risk 
appetite and conducts horizon scanning to anticipate changes 
across financial market regulatory compliance. Compliance 
experts are embedded in business units to provide tailored 
guidance, while assurance activities and risk-based reviews 
support ongoing oversight. Specialist central teams are in place 
for financial crime and employee compliance. Policies are regularly 
updated and mandatory training delivered to ensure employees 
remain informed and aligned with regulatory standards.
Emerging risks
Emerging risks are newly developing external risks which are difficult to quantify due to their remote or evolving nature. We continue to monitor their 
development until we can quantify their impact to our businesses and be removed or included as a principal risk as required.
Risk category Risk description Mitigation
Disruptive 
technology 
Executive lead
Chief Information Officer, 
Divisional Group Heads
Risk trend
We face the risk of disruption from emerging 
technologies and evolving business models that lower 
barriers to entry and intensify competition in the areas 
in which we operate. Advances in AI and associated 
generative technologies, cloud computing, quantum 
technologies and distributed ledger systems could 
reshape market dynamics, introduce new competitors 
and challenge core services we provide. These 
developments may impact our commercial models, 
introduce new cybersecurity and data risks, and 
reduce demand for our centralised infrastructure.
We actively monitor emerging technologies and market shifts 
through our Strategy function and partnerships with external 
advisers. Investment scanning, proof-of-concept testing and 
customer collaboration help us anticipate and respond to 
changing consumption patterns. We continue to build strong 
partnerships with AI focused businesses to ensure our data 
remains fully accessible within the evolving ecosystem of AI 
enabled tools. We have also invested in upgrading and future 
proofing our technology so we can deliver our data quickly 
and seamlessly to new AI applications as they emerge. We also 
participate in industry and academic forums, and engage with 
regulators to shape and align with evolving frameworks that 
support innovation while maintaining market resilience. 
Our internal frameworks, systems and controls ensure a 
structured approach to innovation and adoption of these 
technologies is balanced with the right level of oversight.
 Increasing  Stable  Decreasing
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
55
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Financial viability statement
In accordance with Provision 31 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will continue 
to operate and meet its liabilities, as they 
fall due, for the next three years. 
Viability period
The Directors’ assessment has been made 
with reference to the Group’s current position 
and prospects, the Group’s three-year 
business plan, the Group’s risk appetite and 
the expected impact of severe but plausible 
downside scenarios. Given the Group’s 
acquisitive nature in recent years and future 
organic growth strategy, a three-year window 
is considered the most appropriate horizon for 
the Group’s management to make its viability 
statement because it is the period over which 
it can forecast, with reasonable clarity, the 
Group’s financial performance, cash flows and 
strategic position. A 12-month period from the 
date of signing of the financial statements is 
considered for the going concern assessment 
(see note 1.2 to the financial statements on 
page 182).
Business planning process
The business plan makes certain assumptions 
about the performance of the core revenue 
streams and segments, using existing product 
lines as well as assumptions on take-up of new 
product lines. It considers known inorganic 
activity, as well as assumptions on: the 
appropriate levels of investment to support 
expected performance; the ability to refinance 
debt as required; and expected returns 
to shareholders.
Assessment of viability
The principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group are set out on pages 52 to 55 of 
the Strategic Report. In addition, the financial 
risk management note (see note 17.5 to the 
financial statements on pages 166 to 171) 
includes: the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial 
risk management objectives; and its exposure 
to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The business plan is stress-tested using 
severe but plausible downside scenarios, 
as determined relevant by the Financial Risk 
Committee, over the full three-year plan 
period. These scenarios are then assessed 
against the Group’s risk appetite parameters. 
Impacts on the performance of core revenue 
streams and segments are modelled through 
flexing business inputs, with appropriate 
mitigating factors also considered.
The scenarios tested cover a broad range 
of risks. Some of the key scenarios modelled 
are discussed in the table below.
The results show that the geopolitical threat 
scenario would have the largest impact on 
Group EBITDA. No scenario over the three-
year period leads to a breach of the Group’s 
risk appetite thresholds, or an inability to 
meet the Group’s financial obligations through 
insufficient headroom. The likelihood of these 
scenarios materialising is viewed as remote.
Borrowing facilities
The Group’s borrowing facilities and respective 
repayment dates, and the net debt position 
of the Group, are included in note 16 to the 
financial statements, on pages 152 to 156.
Conclusion
The Directors assessed the prospects and 
viability of the Group in accordance with 
Provision 31 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code taking into account the Group’s 
three-year business plan, and the principal 
risks to the Group’s future performance and 
liquidity. The Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has the ability to 
meet its obligations over the viability period.
Scenario Assumption Associated risk
Global 
financial crisis
A replay of the 2008 crisis, reassessed 
for purpose and fitness with current market 
conditions. The scenario considers the 
collapse of a major financial institution and 
a simultaneous default of one medium-sized 
(domestic rather than international) bank. 
Additionally, the scenario includes the 
consolidation of four globally systemic 
banks into two.
Global economic and 
geopolitical. See page 53 
for more information.
Geopolitical 
threat
Escalation of geopolitical tensions that 
impacts global markets and trade. This 
scenario considers the impact to revenues 
due to sanctions and supply chain issues, 
and access to funding.
Global economic and 
geopolitical. See page 53 
for more information.
Cyber 
security threats
The scenario considers a cyber ransomware 
attack impacting the Group’s ability to serve 
a large portion of its customers.
Information and cyber 
security. See page 54 for 
more information.
56
Strategic Report
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025
Governance
In this section
Complying with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code  58
Corporate governance introduction  59
Board of Directors  60
Corporate governance report 64
Report of the Nomination Committee  72
Report of the Audit Committee 76
Report of the Risk Committee 80
Directors’ Remuneration report  82
Directors’ report  104
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  109
This section of the Annual Report 
describes how LSEG is governed and 
the control structures we have in place. 
Good corporate governance is key to 
promoting the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company, achieving the 
Group’s objectives, generating value 
for shareholders and contributing to 
wider society.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 57
Financial Statements Additional InformationStrategic Report Governance
Complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Throughout the financial year ended 31 
December 2025 and to the date of this report, 
London Stock Exchange Group plc has applied 
the principles and complied with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 
(the “Code”). 
The Code is publicly available at the website 
of the UK Financial Reporting Council at 
www.frc.org.uk. Details of how the principles 
of the Code have been applied can be found 
throughout this Governance section, the 
Strategic Report, and the Committee reports. 
The following table outlines where narrative 
on the Code principles is positioned 
throughout the Annual Report:
Section heading Page
1. Board leadership and Company purpose
A.  Leadership, long-term sustainable success, generating value for shareholders 
and contributing to wider society
Corporate governance report 65
B. Company purpose, values and strategy Our purpose and strategy
Sustainability
10 to 11
37
C. Governance reporting Corporate governance report 64 to 71
D. Effective engagement with stakeholders Board engagement with stakeholders
Corporate governance report
47 to 49
65
E. Workforce policies and practices Sustainability 44 to 45
2. Division of responsibilities
F. Leadership of the Board Corporate governance report 66
G. Board composition and division of responsibilities Board of Directors
Corporate governance report
60 to 63
66 to 67
H. Role and time commitment of Non-Executive Directors Corporate governance report 66 to 67
I.  Policies, processes, information, time and resources, and support of the Company Secretary Corporate governance report 64 to 71
3. Composition, succession and evaluation
J. Board appointment process and effective succession planning Report of the Nomination Committee 72 to 75
K. Board and Committee skills, experience and knowledge Board of Directors 
Corporate governance report
60 to 63
67
L. Annual Board and individual Director evaluation Corporate governance report 68 to 69
4. Audit, risk and internal control
M. Independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit function Report of the Audit Committee 78
N. Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects Report of the Audit Committee 79
O.  Procedures to manage risk, oversee internal control framework and determine 
nature and extent of principal risks
Principal risks and uncertainties
Corporate governance report
52 to 55
70 to 71
5. Remuneration
P. Remuneration policies and practices Report of the Remuneration Committee 82 to 103
Q.  Procedure for developing policy on Executive, Director and 
senior management remuneration
Report of the Remuneration Committee 82 to 103
R. Independent judgement and discretion in remuneration outcomes Report of the Remuneration Committee 82 to 103
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 58
Governance
Corporate governance introduction
Dear Shareholders, 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present our Corporate governance report 
for the year ended 31 December 2025, which 
aims to provide details of how our Board has 
approached its responsibilities during the 
year, as well as an overview of how LSEG is 
governed, the activities of the Board and the 
control structures we have in place. Our Board 
is responsible for the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company, generating value 
for shareholders and contributing to wider 
society. We approach this by supporting and 
challenging executive management to ensure 
that we operate to high governance standards 
in line with our purpose and values. This report 
explains how we seek to achieve this and 
contains some highlights from 2025 from my 
perspective as Chair. Together with the reports 
of the Committees, we have set out how 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2024 
(the “Code”) has been applied during the year. 
Changes to our Board 
During the year, we welcomed Lloyd Pitchford 
and Dame Elizabeth Corley to our Board 
as independent Non-Executive Directors. 
We also announced that Dominic Blakemore 
and Martin Brand would step down from the 
Board as Non-Executive Directors following 
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
in April 2026. At that time, Lloyd will succeed 
Dominic as Chair of the Audit Committee. 
You can read more about our new Directors 
and the processes followed in relation to Board 
appointments in the Report of the Nomination 
Committee on page 72 to 75.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
Dominic and Martin for their significant 
contributions during a period of rapid 
transformation for the Group. I would also 
like to thank Dominic for his leadership of 
the Audit Committee over the past six years.
Engagement with our stakeholders
Listening to our stakeholders, and 
understanding their perspectives, is key to 
ensuring that our discussions and decision- 
making as a Board appropriately considers, 
and where appropriate, responds to their 
views. During 2025, we continued our 
programme of engagement with key 
stakeholder groups, to ensure that our 
dialogue with them remains consistent 
and effective. You can read more about 
our engagement with our key stakeholders 
on pages 47 to 49.
Board composition
We continue to meet two of the three Board 
diversity targets set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s UK Listing Rules. We also meet 
one of the targets recommended by the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review (with one of our four 
senior Board positions being held by a woman) 
and the Parker Review recommendations (with 
one of the Directors being from a minority 
ethnic background). 
Following the conclusion of the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2026, female representation 
on the Board will be 45% and all three of the 
FCA’s targets will be met at that time, as well 
as both recommendations of the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review. For more information on 
Board diversity, please see the Nomination 
Committee report on pages 72 to 75.
Commitment to sustainability
Our Board continues to make LSEG’s 
contribution to sustainability a priority, 
reflecting the expectations of our stakeholders. 
Across the Group, we are advancing a range 
of initiatives that support our ambition to act 
as a strategic enabler of sustainable economic 
growth. With our global reach, data capabilities 
and market infrastructure, LSEG is uniquely 
positioned to lead the transition to a sustainable 
future. Further information on the Group’s 
work on sustainability can be found in the 
Sustainability section of the Strategic Report 
on pages 37 to 46.
Committee governance 
The Chairs of the Audit Committee, Risk 
Committee, Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee report on the 
activities of each of the Committees during 
the year from pages 72 to 103. I would like to 
thank the Committee Chairs for the work they 
have done during the year. 
External Board performance review 
This year’s review of the performance of our 
Board was externally facilitated and conducted 
by No 4 Consulting, an independent advisory 
firm. The Board reviewed the results and 
agreed areas of focus for 2026. We are 
committed to ensuring that these focus areas 
are acted upon to further enhance Board 
performance. I can confirm that the actions 
from the 2024 effectiveness review were 
completed during the year. Summaries of our 
actions from the 2024 effectiveness review 
and the results of the 2025 review can be 
found on pages 68 and 69.
Compliance with the Code
The Company has applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of the 
Code throughout the financial year ended 
31 December 2025 and to the date of this 
report. This report is intended to give 
shareholders a clear and comprehensive 
picture of the Group’s governance 
arrangements and how they operated during 
the year. Further information on compliance 
with the Code is detailed on page 58.
Conclusion 
I would like to express my thanks to my 
Board colleagues for their commitment and 
constructive challenge throughout 2025 
as we continue to support the Company’s 
execution of its strategy in the coming year. 
I hope this report provides valuable insights 
into our activities and approach to governance.
I encourage all shareholders to vote their shares 
in favour of all resolutions to be considered at 
our AGM in April 2026. Full details of the AGM 
will be provided in the Notice of Meeting. 
Don Robert CBE
Chair
25 February 2026
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 59
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Michel-Alain Proch
Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board in March 2024.
David Schwimmer
Group Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board in August 2018.
Don Robert CBE
Chair of the Company 
Appointed to the Board in January 2019 
and Chair of the Company in May 2019. 
Board of Directors
The Board’s membership reflects a wide range of skills and business 
experience, drawn from a number of industries, which is critical for 
bringing the expertise required and to enable different perspectives 
to be brought to Board discussions.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Strong track record in global financial 
services, international business and mergers 
and acquisitions 
 – Expert regulatory knowledge, accompanied 
with a deep understanding of technology 
and data and analytics 
 – Significant executive and non-executive 
listed board experience 
Experience
Don spent 18 years at multinational information 
company Experian plc, where he most recently 
served as Chairman (2014-2019). Prior to that 
he was Group Chief Executive (2005-2014) 
and CEO of the North American business 
(2001-2005). Don has served in a variety 
of senior roles including Chair of the US 
Consumer Data Industry Association, Senior 
Independent Director of Compass Group plc, 
Non-Executive Director of the Court of 
Directors, Bank of England and Chair of the 
videogames services company, Keywords 
Studios plc (2023-2024). 
Other current appointments
Chair, Bupa; Chair of Council, The London 
School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; 
Partner, Corten Capital; Non-Executive 
Director, Validis Group Holdings Limited; 
Non-Executive Director, FlexFactor; Visiting 
Fellow, Oxford University; Honorary Group 
Captain, Royal Air Force; Supporting Chair, 
Chapter Zero.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – A wealth of knowledge surrounding 
market structure, investment banking and 
emerging markets 
 – Extensive experience in corporate finance, 
capital markets, and mergers and acquisitions 
 – Deep understanding of the business and the 
markets within which the Group operates 
Experience
Since joining the Group in 2018, David has 
overseen the transformation of LSEG from 
a European regional exchange group to a 
diversified, global leader in financial markets 
infrastructure and data services. Prior to his 
role at LSEG, David spent 20 years at Goldman 
Sachs in a number of senior roles, most 
recently as Global Head of Market Structure 
and Global Head of Metals & Mining. Prior 
to joining Goldman Sachs, he practiced law 
at Davis Polk & Wardwell. 
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director, Centre for 
New American Security (Not-for-Profit).Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Significant financial leadership experience 
in global listed companies
 – Deep experience across global, financial 
infrastructure and IT data solutions firms
 – Extensive experience of mergers and 
acquisitions and delivering strategic growth
Experience
Prior to joining the Group on 26 February 
2024, Michel-Alain was Group Chief Financial 
Officer of Publicis Groupe SA (2021-2024) 
where he led the global finance team across 
100 countries. Prior to joining Publicis Groupe, 
Michel-Alain was CFO of Ingenico until its 
acquisition by Worldline (2019-2020), and then 
served as adviser to the CEO in the integration 
of the two companies. He previously spent 
almost 13 years at Atos in a number of senior 
roles, including Group Chief Financial Officer, 
CEO, North America and Group Chief Digital 
Officer, completing and integrating several 
strategic acquisitions. Michel-Alain was 
formerly the Vice-Chairman of Maison 
Du Monde (2020-2024).
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the 
Audit Committee, Pluxee N.V.
 Audit Committee
 Nomination Committee
 Remuneration Committee
 Risk Committee
 Committee Chair
A
N
Re
Ri
N Re
Director changes in 2025
Lloyd Pitchford – Joined the Board on 30 April 2025.
Dame Elizabeth Corley – Joined the Board on 
1 December 2025.
Director changes after 31 December 2025
Dominic Blakemore – Steps down from the 
Board following the AGM on 23 April 2026.
Martin Brand – Steps down from the Board 
following the AGM on 23 April 2026.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 60
Governance
Dominic Blakemore
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in January 2020.
Martin Brand
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in January 2021.
Dame Elizabeth Corley
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in December 2025.
Professor Kathleen DeRose
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in December 2018.
Board of Directors continued
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Executive leadership experience in capital 
markets and asset and wealth management 
 – Significant non-executive listed board 
experience 
 – Expertise in the financial technology market, 
risk management, and data and analytics
Experience
Kathleen is a Clinical Associate Professor of 
Finance at New York University Leonard N. Stern 
School of Business. Previous to this, she held 
a number of senior roles at Credit Suisse Group 
AG (2010-2015). Kathleen’s other prior positions 
have included Managing Partner, and Head of 
Portfolio Management and Research at Hagin 
Investment Management (2006-2010), and 
Managing Director, Head of Large Cap Equities 
at Bessemer Trust (2003-2006). Preceding 
2003, Kathleen also held a number of roles at 
Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan Chase (formerly 
Chase Manhattan Bank). In addition to her senior 
executive positions, Kathleen was founding 
Chair of Evolute Group AG (2016-2017) and 
served as a board member of EDGE (Economic 
Dividends for Gender Equality) (2014-2015). 
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director, Experian plc; 
Chairperson, Apron Payments Ltd; 
Non-Executive Director, Voya Financial Inc.; 
Non-Executive Director, Taxwell; Head 
of Fintech Initiative, Fubon Centre for 
Technology, Business, and Innovation.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Significant board and executive experience 
across listed companies 
 – Highly accomplished in corporate 
finance, with a focus on the financial 
technology sector 
 – Extensive experience in strategic 
planning, data and analytics, and mergers 
and acquisitions 
Experience
Martin is Head of Blackstone Capital Partners 
at Blackstone Inc. His work at Blackstone Inc. 
has seen him involved in several of their 
high-profile investments including: Sphera, 
Ellucian, Refinitiv, Bumble, IntraFi and Paysafe. 
He is a member of several of Blackstone’s 
investment committees. He previously worked 
as a derivatives trader with Goldman Sachs 
in New York and Tokyo, and with McKinsey 
& Company in London. He was Chair of 
Tradeweb Markets (a subsidiary of LSEG) 
until February 2022 and a Director of Refinitiv 
until 2021.
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director, Bumble Inc; Director, 
UKG Software; Director, Liftoff Mobile; 
Director, Smartsheet Inc; Trustee, American 
Academy Berlin. 
N
NA Ri
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Deep expertise in asset management, impact 
investment and global financial markets 
 – Significant non-executive experience across 
a range of listed company boards
 – Extensive experience in governance and 
strategic leadership across the financial 
services industry
Experience
Dame Elizabeth is Chair of Schroders plc, 
a role she has held since 2022, having joined 
the Board in 2021. She previously held 
non-executive director roles at BAE Systems 
plc (2016-2025), Pearson plc (2014-2021) and 
Morgan Stanley Inc (2018-2022). From 2005 
to 2016, Elizabeth was Chief Executive Officer 
of Allianz Global Investors, first overseeing 
operations in Europe and later globally. Earlier 
in her career, she held senior positions at 
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers (1993-2004). 
Other current appointments
Chair Emerita, Impact Investing Institute; 
Non-Executive Director, Green Finance 
Institute Limited; Director, British Museum 
Trust; Member, Leverhulme Trust Investment 
Committee; Member, CFA Research & Policy 
Center Advisory Council.
N Ri
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Extensive experience in corporate finance, 
investor relations and capital markets 
 – Significant financial leadership experience 
from various international financial 
institutions 
 – Strong strategic planning and decision-
making experience 
Experience
Dominic is a chartered accountant and has 
been Group Chief Executive Officer of Compass 
Group plc since 2018. Previously, he served 
as Deputy Chief Executive Officer (2017), 
Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe 
(2015-2017) and Group Finance Director 
(2012-2015). Prior to these roles, Dominic 
served as Chief Financial Officer of Iglo 
Foods Group Limited (2010-2011). He also 
held the position of European Finance & 
Strategy Director at Cadbury plc (2008-2010). 
Dominic was formerly a Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit, Risk and Compliance 
Committee of Shire plc (2014-2018).
Other current appointments
Vice-Chair, University College London; 
Chair, FareShare.
N RiA
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 61
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Tsega Gebreyes
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in June 2021.
Scott Guthrie
Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in February 2023.
Cressida Hogg CBE
Senior Independent Director
Appointed to the Board in March 2019.
Lloyd Pitchford
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in April 2025.
Board of Directors continued
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Significant board and executive level 
experience combined with a strong 
corporate background in infrastructure, 
private equity, mergers and acquisitions, 
and investments 
 – Strong Chair experience and competency 
in embedding corporate governance values 
 – Specialist knowledge in capital markets, 
financial services regulation and pensions
Experience
Cressida was Global Head of Infrastructure 
at Canada Pension Plan Investment Board 
(2014-2018). Previous to this, she spent nearly 
20 years with 3i Group plc and was one of 
the co-founders of 3i’s Infrastructure business 
in 2005, before becoming Managing Partner 
in 2009. In addition to her senior executive 
positions, Cressida served as Chair of Land 
Securities Group plc (2018-2023) having been 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2014.
Other current appointments
Chair, BAE Systems plc; Member, Wellcome 
Trust Investment Committee; Member, 
The Takeover Panel; President, Confederation 
of British Industry.
N ReA
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Market-leading experience in cloud 
infrastructure and data and analytics 
 – A deep and valuable understanding 
of the technology market 
 – Specialist in digital transformation 
Experience
Scott has over 28 years of experience leading 
large technology teams at Microsoft and has 
been Executive Vice President of Microsoft’s 
Cloud and AI division since 2014. He is 
responsible for Microsoft Azure and Microsoft’s 
Cloud and Data Platforms. Scott was previously 
Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Azure 
(2011-2014), Corporate Vice President of 
Microsoft’s Developer Division (2008-2011) 
and General Manager Microsoft Developer 
Division (2005-2008).
Other current appointments
None.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Deep financial services and capital markets 
experience gained from various global 
senior executive and non-executive roles 
 – Significant expertise in international 
business and technology 
 – Strong background in strategy and 
business development 
Experience
Tsega is a Founding Director at Satya Capital 
Limited. Previously, she spent seven years 
at Celtel International, a leading mobile 
telecommunications provider in the Middle East 
and North Africa. During her tenure at Celtel, 
Tsega held a variety of senior roles including 
Senior Group Adviser, Zain Africa BV (2007-2016), 
Chief Strategy and Development Officer 
(2005-2007), Chief Business Development and 
Mergers & Acquisitions Officer (2003-2005) and 
Director, Mobile Commerce and New Product 
Development (2000-2003). In addition to her 
senior executive positions, Tsega has served 
as Vice Chair of SES SA, and Non-Executive 
Director of Sonae SA (2015-2019), ISON Group 
(2013-2018), Hygeia Nigeria Limited (2009-
2015) and Non-Executive Director of 
Mastercard Foundation (2023-2025).
Other current appointments
Senior Independent Director, Airtel Africa plc; 
Advisory Council Member, Mo Ibrahim 
Foundation; Non-Executive Director, Mastercard 
Foundation Asset Management Corporation.
NA
N
Ri
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Significant expertise in financial 
management and strategic planning within 
global growth organisations
 – Extensive experience in data and 
information management in highly regulated 
environments, whilst overseeing complex 
data driven initiatives
 – Brings a wealth of experience from senior 
roles across multiple sectors, offering 
a broad and diverse perspective
Experience
Lloyd is the Chief Financial Officer at Experian 
plc, a role he has held since 2014. Before joining 
Experian, Lloyd served as the Chief Financial 
Officer of Intertek Group plc (2010-2014) and 
held senior finance roles at BG Group plc 
(1999-2010), including Group Financial 
Controller (2005-2010). He also gained valuable 
experience in financial and commercial roles 
at Mobil Oil (1991-1999). Prior to joining the 
LSEG Board, Lloyd served as a Non-Executive 
Director at Bunzl plc (2017-2025), where 
he chaired the Audit Committee and was 
a member of the Remuneration, Nomination 
and Sustainability Committees.
Other current appointments
None.
N RiA
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 62
Governance
William Vereker
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in October 2022.
Dr. Val Rahmani
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointed to the Board in December 2017.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Significant expertise and knowledge of 
technology and technical risk management 
 – Deep understanding of digital transformation, 
innovation, sales and marketing 
 – Extensive listed director experience 
accompanied by expert corporate 
governance knowledge
Experience
Val worked for IBM for almost 30 years and 
was Chief Executive Officer of cyber security 
start-up, Damballa Inc., for four years. 
Her past career also included Non-Executive 
Director positions at Aberdeen Asset 
Management plc, Teradici Corporation and 
CTG, Inc. Val previously ran the Innovation 
Panel for Standard Life Aberdeen and holds 
a Doctorate of Philosophy in Chemistry from 
the University of Oxford. 
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director, RenaissanceRe 
Holdings Limited; Non-Executive 
Director, Entrust.
Skills, knowledge and contribution 
 – Highly experienced banker, including 
experience in executive roles 
 – Significant knowledge and experience 
of capital markets, post-trade and 
investment banking 
 – Deep knowledge of financial services 
and regulatory and government relations 
Experience
William was Vice Chair of the EMEA Investment 
Bank at JP Morgan in 2020. Prior to that he 
served as the Prime Minister’s Business Envoy 
(2018-2019) and held senior roles at UBS 
(2013-2018), including Global Head of Investment 
Banking (2016-2018). Before joining UBS, 
William held a number of senior executive roles 
at Nomura (2009-2013) and Lehman Brothers 
(2005-2008). He began his career at Morgan 
Stanley where he held a number of roles in 
M&A and Investment Banking. William was 
also Chair of Santander UK (2020-2025) and 
a Member of the UK Investment Council 
(2021-2024).
Other current appointments
Non-Executive Director, Macquarie Group 
Limited; Member, Advisory Board, Celonis 
GmbH; Chair, Advisory Board of Gonville 
and Caius College, Cambridge; Member 
and Special Advisor, Delancey Credit Fund 
Investment Committee.
N Re Ri
N Re Ri
Board of Directors continued
Board and Committee meetings
The table shows the number of scheduled and ad hoc meetings attended against the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Director Board Audit Risk Nomination Remuneration
Don Robert CBE1 6/7 2/2 3/4
David Schwimmer 7/7
Michel-Alain Proch 7/7
Dominic Blakemore 7/7 4/4 4/4 2/2
Martin Brand2 5/7 2/2
Dame Elizabeth Corley3 1/1 1/1 0/1
Kathleen DeRose 7/7 4/4 4/4 2/2
Tsega Gebreyes 7/7 4/4 4/4 2/2
Scott Guthrie 7/7 2/2
Cressida Hogg CBE 7/7 4/4 2/2 4/4
Lloyd Pitchford4 4/6 2/3 2/3 2/2
Val Rahmani 7/7 4/4 2/2 4/4
William Vereker 7/7 4/4 2/2 4/4
1 Don Robert was unable to attend an ad hoc Remuneration Committee meeting in April 2025 due to a pre-existing commitment, or the Board meeting in October 2025 due to a family commitment. 
Cressida Hogg chaired the Board on that occasion. 
2 Martin Brand did not attend an ad hoc Board meeting in June 2025 due to a potential conflict of interest. Mr Brand was unable to attend the Board meeting in July 2025 due to another 
commitment.
Directors who joined the Board in 2025 
3 Dame Elizabeth Corley was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2025. Dame Elizabeth was unable to attend the Nomination Committee meeting in December 2025 due to a pre-existing 
commitment which had been arranged and agreed with the Chair prior to joining the Board.
4  Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a Director on 30 April 2025. Mr Pitchford was unable to attend the Board and Committee meetings in June 2025 due to a pre-existing commitment which had 
been arranged and agreed with the Chair prior to joining the Board.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 63
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Corporate governance report
Board activities
Principal activities during the year
Each of the regular meetings includes a wide-ranging report from the Chief Executive Officer, together with reports from the Chief Financial Officer 
and the Chief Operating Officer. Reports from the Committee Chairs and updates on major projects, including the LSEG-Microsoft Partnership, were 
also provided at each Board meeting. The Board’s activities supported the delivery of our purpose and strategy as set out in the Strategic Report 
from page 10.
During the year, the key matters considered by the Board included the following: 
Area of focus Key activities and outcomes
Customers  – Received briefings on customer engagement, including sales and 
account management, and banking customers. 
 – Held a direct customer engagement session during the visit to the 
New York office resulting in deeper insights gained on customer 
needs and concerns.
 – Received updates on customer metrics, key customer 
initiatives and new products and services, including in relation 
to the partnership with Microsoft and the use of AI to improve 
customer experience.
Strategy and 
execution
 – Discussed the long-term strategic direction and priorities at the 
Annual Board Strategy Day and approved the Group strategy. 
 – Received regular updates on progress against the strategic 
objectives.
 – Monitored progress on the strategic partnership with Microsoft 
for next-generation data and analytics, cloud infrastructure and 
AI integration. 
 – Received regular updates on progress to transition to a product-led 
operating model, AI-ready products, transformation, achieving 
stated targets and synergies, customer matters, people and culture, 
and technology. 
 – Considered LSEG’s competitive position against its industry 
peers as part of strategic planning and execution discussions 
at the Board Strategy Day.
 – Approved the SwapClear partnership and the Post Trade 
Solutions transaction, which comprised of the sale of a 20% 
equity stake in Post Trade Solutions to key customer banks, 
in combination with an amendment and extension of the 
SwapClear revenue share arrangements. The partnership 
deepens the relationships with key customer banks, 
supporting future growth.
Finance 
and capital
 – Examined the Group’s financial performance at every Board 
meeting and approved the Group’s financial statements. 
 – Reviewed and approved the annual budget and three-year 
strategic plan.
 – Considered and approved the final and interim dividends, resulting 
in the payment of £718 million to shareholders during the year.
 – Approved on-market share buybacks returning value to shareholders 
of £2.5 billion over the 12-month period from March 2025 to 
February 2026. 
 – Approved debt programme matters including: a $250 million 
repurchase of the $1,250 million 2.5% bond issued in April 2021 
under the Global Medium Term Note Programme; an increase 
of the European Medium Term Note (EMTN) Programme limit 
to £10 billion; and the issuance of fixed rate bonds to the value 
of CHF150 million, JPY40 billion and £900 million under the 
EMTN Programme.
Sustainability
 – Reviewed and approved LSEG’s Sustainability Report 2024 
(including TCFD Report), Sustainability Databook 2024 and Modern 
Slavery Statement. 
 – Received a briefing on upcoming changes to sustainability 
reporting including the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive, UK Sustainability Reporting Standards, and reviewed and 
challenged LSEG’s approach to reporting against the regulations.
 – Reviewed LSEG’s sustainability performance against strategy 
and targets in 2025 and discussed the priorities for 2026.
People 
and culture
 – Received updates on the people and culture strategy, and 
reviewed examples of how the strategy was being implemented 
and would support the Group’s strategic ambitions. 
 – Received updates on focus areas to promote a high-performance 
culture including: organisational design; leadership; talent 
development and workforce capability; equity, diversity and 
inclusion; and performance and reward.
 – Received updates on leadership and cultural initiatives to support 
the transition to a product-led operating model. 
 – Received updates on: employee welfare, including rewards, 
benefits and wellbeing offerings; and compensation reviews.
 – Received updates on the Group’s progress to support equity, 
diversity and inclusion, including the launch of a multi-year 
Disability Action Plan.
 – Approved updates to the Code of Conduct setting out the 
standards of behaviour expected at LSEG and promoting 
an inclusive, high-performance culture. 
 – Received regular updates from the Directors on their 
engagement with colleagues across the Group – see page 47 
for details of the Board/Employee Engagement programme.
 – Discussed the results of the annual LSEG Engage survey and 
related management actions in response to workforce feedback.
Risk 
management 
and internal 
controls
 – Received updates from the Chief Risk Officer on key risk 
management and internal control matters, and discussed key risks 
and, where applicable, risk-reduction activities. 
 – Considered the Group’s risk profile and approved the principal and 
emerging risks.
 – Received updates on technology risk, cyber security, sustainability 
risk and operational resilience, including refreshed key risk indicators.
 – Reviewed and approved the Group’s risk appetite statements.
 – Reviewed and approved the risk management and internal 
control frameworks and their effectiveness.
 – Received briefings on the preparations for compliance 
with the revised requirements of Provision 29 of the Code.
 – Received updates from the Chairs of the Risk and Audit 
Committees on matters considered by these Committees.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 64
Governance
Corporate governance report continued
Board and Committee meetings
Comprehensive Board and Committee papers, 
comprising an agenda and formal reports and 
briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance 
of each meeting. Directors are also updated 
with written and verbal reports from senior 
executives and external advisers during 
meetings. The Non-Executive Directors meet 
privately without the Executive Directors being 
present after every Board meeting.
Board training and deep dives 
The Board regularly reviews the need for 
additional training and focused briefings on 
key topics. During 2025, the Board participated 
in sessions relating to artificial intelligence 
strategy and governance as well as new 
sustainability reporting regulations. 
The strategic partnership with Microsoft was 
discussed at every Board meeting and during 
separate sessions with management outside 
of Board meetings to receive updates on 
products and progress. The Board also 
received comprehensive briefings on the 
Group’s business divisions and strategy during 
the Board visit to the New York office. 
Chairs’ Forum
The Chairs’ Forum is comprised of the Chairs of 
the Group’s principal regulated subsidiaries and 
the Chair of the Company, with the Group CEO 
being invited to meetings on a regular basis. 
The Forum provides opportunities for relevant 
subsidiary Chairs from across the Group to 
engage on common themes and topics of 
interest. During the year, this included: the 
completion of the SwapClear partnership and 
investment in Post Trade Solutions with key 
customer banks; challenges and opportunities 
presented by artificial intelligence; multi-year 
technology planning and innovation; and 
non-executive director rotations.
Culture
The Board has established the Group’s 
strategy, purpose and values and understands 
the importance of satisfying itself that the 
Group’s culture is also aligned and 
appropriately embedded. The Board receives 
an annual update from the Chief People Officer 
on progress to embed the Group’s strategic 
ambitions around culture and an analysis of 
key areas of feedback from the annual 
engagement survey results. Board members 
also utilised engagement sessions with 
colleagues and townhalls to monitor and 
promote LSEG’s culture by directly listening 
to the views of the workforce and highlighting 
the cultural ambitions of the Group. To support 
the Board’s ongoing assessment and oversight 
of culture, the Board received dashboards at 
each Board meeting monitoring key cultural 
performance indicators. 
Organisational frameworks and policies 
underpin the relationship between LSEG’s 
purpose, values and culture. The Board 
reviewed and approved the Group’s Code 
of Conduct which sets out the behavioural 
and ethical expectations that are essential 
to preserving the desired culture at LSEG. 
Further information about how LSEG monitors 
and embeds its culture, can be found in the 
Strategic Report on pages 44 to 47.
Stakeholder engagement 
The Board seeks to understand the interests, 
needs and concerns of shareholders and other 
key stakeholders (including the workforce, 
customers, suppliers and regulators) to enable 
LSEG to pursue long-term sustainable success. 
For more information on how we engage with 
our stakeholders as well as how the Board has 
discharged its duties under Section 172 of the 
Companies Act, please see pages 47 to 51 of 
the Strategic Report. 
Our governance framework 
The structure of our governance framework is 
set out in the diagram on page 66 and confirms 
that the Board holds primary responsibility 
for ensuring the long-term success of the 
Company, primarily for the benefit of our 
shareholders. The Board has delegated certain 
responsibilities to its Committees and delegates 
authority for day-to-day operations to the CEO.
Board responsibilities 
The LSEG Board is collectively responsible 
for the long term, sustainable success of the 
Company, the delivery of sustainable value 
to its shareholders and contributing to 
wider society. 
The Board: 
 – Provides leadership of the Company and 
is responsible for setting the strategy and 
maintaining high standards of governance. 
 – Leads the development of the Group’s 
culture, values and behaviours.
 – Oversees the execution of the Group’s 
strategy and holds executive management 
to account for its delivery.
 – Oversees key strategic matters and their 
related risks, including sustainability, 
technology (including cyber and AI) and 
human capital management.
 – Reviews and holds management to account 
for financial and business performance.
 – Ensures necessary resources are in place for 
the Group to be able to meet its objectives 
and measures performance against these.
 – Ensures the establishment of a framework 
of effective controls, which enable risk to 
be assessed and managed.
 – Bears ultimate responsibility for the oversight 
of risk management and internal controls.
 – Ensures that its responsibilities to 
shareholders and stakeholders are met, 
including through effective engagement 
(including having workforce policies and 
practices that are consistent with the 
Company’s values and that support the 
Company’s long-term sustainable success).
In carrying out their duties, the Directors act 
in accordance with all relevant and applicable 
legislative and regulatory rules. In particular, 
they take into account Directors’ duties 
contained in the Companies Act 2006 (the 
“Act”) and will consider the factors listed in 
Section 172 of the Act and any other relevant 
factors. LSEG’s Section 172(1) statement for 
the year ended 31 December 2025, including 
details of certain Board decisions taken during 
the year, can be found on pages 50 to 51 of the 
Strategic Report.
The Directors have full access to the advice 
and services of the Group Company Secretary, 
who is responsible for advising on corporate 
governance matters. 
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain 
responsibilities to four Board Committees: 
the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk 
Committees. Full details of the Committees’ 
responsibilities are set out in individual Terms 
of Reference which are available on the 
corporate website. The work undertaken 
by each Committee during the financial year 
is detailed within the respective Committee 
reports on pages 72 to 103.
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 65
Financial Statements Additional InformationGovernanceStrategic Report
Corporate governance report continued
Division of responsibilities
The Board maintains a division of 
responsibilities between the leadership of the 
Board and executive leadership of the Group. 
The responsibilities of the Chair, the Senior 
Independent Director and the Group Chief 
Executive are approved by the Board.
The Board’s statement of division of 
responsibilities has been made publicly available 
on our website: www.lseg.com/en/about-us/
corporate-governance.
Chair
Don Robert CBE
 – Leads the Board and is responsible for 
the overall effectiveness of its operation
 – Manages and is accountable for Board 
succession planning
 – Ensures that there is effective 
communication by the Company with 
its shareholders and other key 
stakeholders, including personally 
engaging with these parties
 – Chairs all general meetings of the 
members of the Company, including 
the Annual General Meeting
 – Ensures that Board members receive 
accurate, timely, and clear information 
to make informed decisions
Group Chief Financial Officer
Michel-Alain Proch
 – Provides expert knowledge and 
experience on all financial matters
 – Collaborates with the CEO and other 
executives to shape and execute the 
Company’s strategic plans
 – Communicates the Company’s financial 
performance to shareholders, and other 
key stakeholders 
 – Manages and oversees the budgeting 
and financial planning process
 – Supports the CEO in developing and 
executing the strategic and financial 
objectives of the Company
Group Company Secretary
Lisa Condron
 – Ensures that the Board has the policies, 
processes, information, time and 
resources it needs to function effectively 
 – Ensures that good information flows 
within the Board, its Committees and 
between Senior Management and 
Directors
 – Facilitates new Directors’ inductions, 
and arranges Board training to assist with 
the Directors’ professional development 
 – Ensures that the Board has access to 
independent professional advice 
when necessary
 – Reports to the Chair on all Board 
governance matters
Non-Executive Directors
 – Provide independent oversight and 
challenge to management 
 – Assist management in the development 
of strategy
 – Review the Group’s financial information
 – Engage key stakeholders
 – Perform additional duties as required by 
membership of the Board’s committees
Senior Independent Director
Cressida Hogg CBE
 – Acts as a sounding board for the Chair
 – Leads the review of the performance 
of the Chair
 – Develops succession plans for the Chair
 – Acts as an intermediary between the 
Chair and other Directors when 
necessary
 – Is available to shareholders as necessary
Group Chief Executive Officer
David Schwimmer
 – Leads the Company on strategy and 
overall commercial objectives
 – Manages the day-to-day business 
of the Company
 – Leads and promotes the Company’s 
purpose, culture, values and behaviours 
 – Implements the decisions of the Board, 
together with the Executive Committee
 – Acts as a key representative of the 
Company, supported by the CFO and 
other members of the Executive 
Committee, during engagement with 
shareholders and other stakeholders
LSEG governance framework
Shareholders
Board of Directors
See biographies on pages 60 to 63
Board Committees
Nomination Committee 
See page 72
Audit Committee 
See page 76
Risk Committee 
See page 80
Remuneration Committee 
See page 82
Group Chief Executive Officer
Executive Committee
See biographies on page 7
Group management  
committees
London Stock Exchange Group plc | Annual Report 2025 66
Governance
Relevant sector experience: Non-Executive Directors
Data and analytics
Post trade
Capital markets
Technology
Financial qualiﬁcations
FTSE100/Listed experience as either 
NED (other than LSEG) or Executive
FS regulated
Sustainability
 4
 1
 8
 7
 3
 10
 6
 3
Corporate governance report continued
Board composition
As at the date of this report, the Board is 
comprised of 13 members: the Chair, nine 
independent Non-Executive Directors, one 
Non-Executive Director (the Director appointed 
in connection with the strategic partnership 
with Microsoft) and two Executive Directors. 
Five of the Directors are women; one of the 
Directors is from a minority ethnic background; 
and one senior position is held by a female 
Director (Senior Independent Director).
Dominic Blakemore and Martin Brand will step 
down from the Board following the conclusion 
of the AGM in April 2026, after which the Board 
will be comprised of 11 members, including 
seven independent Non-Executive Directors.
Further information about diversity, inclusion 
and equal opportunity in the Board and 
executive management can be found in the 
Nomination Committee report starting on 
page 72.
Skills and expertise
The Board, with support of the Nomination 
Committee, keeps under review the skills and 
experience of the Board to ensure that it has 
the breadth and depth of expertise to carry out 
its duties and responsibilities. The Directors 
remain satisfied that the Board contains the 
necessary skills and expertise to fulfil the 
Company’s long-term strategic objectives. 
In December 2025, the Directors considered 
the relevant sector experience for each 
Non-Executive Director; this has been 
summarised in the adjacent table.
Further details on the Nomination Committee 
review of Board composition can be found 
on pages 72 to 75.
Director independence
The Board, with support from the Nomination 
Committee, has evaluated the independence 
of all the Non-Executive Directors. In assessing 
each Director, the Board considers whether 
there are relationships or circumstances that 
are likely to affect or could appear to affect 
a Director’s judgement. 
Scott Guthrie was appointed to the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director in 2023. Scott 
represents Microsoft Corporation and was 
appointed in connection with the strategic 
partnership. The Board agreed that Scott 
would not be considered independent under 
the Code given his relationship with Microsoft. 
Scott is not a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration or Risk Committees.
Kathleen DeRose and Lloyd Pitchford are 
directors on the Board of Experian plc. The 
Board is satisfied that this does not impair their 
independence as Non-Executive Directors as 
they both demonstrate independent thought, 
character and judgement, provide constructive 
challenge and are independent of management. 
As such, the Board considers them to 
be independent.
The Board has evaluated the independence 
of the other Non-Executive Directors and 
concluded that each is independent in 
character and judgement. The Chair was 
independent on appointment. 
In line with the Code, at least half the Board, 
excluding the Chair, are independent 
Non-Executive Directors. All Directors are 
subject to annual re-election at the AGM. 
Time commitment and conflicts of interest
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
reviewing time commitments and significant 
external appointments being undertaken 
by the Directors. The Chairman’s additional 
external appointments require approval by 
the Board. 
During the year, the Nomination Committee 
reviewed the additional external appointment 
of William Vereker as a Non-Executive Director 
of Macquarie Group Limited. It was agreed that 
the proposed appointment would not create 
any material conflict of interest and it was 
confirmed that William would have sufficient 
time to undertake the new role in addition 
to existing commitments.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, 
the Directors have adopted a policy and 
procedures for the disclosure and authorisation 
of conflicts of interest. The Company’s Articles 
of Association allow the Board to authorise 
conflicts of interest that may arise and to 
impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit. 
The Company has established procedures 
whereby actual and potential conflicts of 
interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate 
authorisation is sought prior to the appointment 
of any new Director, and new conflicts are 
addressed appropriately. These procedures 
have been followed during 2025. 
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest 
can only be made by non-conflicted Dir